1360108800
2.0
review/summary: Great if you like the spotted, Cheetah pattern look!review/text: I am fairly young and I was in constant search of a product that would hide my bald spots. I looked at Rogaine and trying vitamins like Biotin and such...but I wanted instant results. So I came across this product. My bald spots are located at the top of my head near the back. Maybe where the scalp ends. It's unsightly and it doesn't help that I have very thin hair, so I can't hide it by just moving hair around lol. Quite honestly, I don't want to end up leaving my hair in a bun for the rest of my life to hide my bald spot. I like variety. So, when I received this product, I was really excited and I applied it to the spot. It's extremely difficult when your bald spot is at the back of your head...obviously it's hard to apply something there when you can not see anything. But I went on, and used two mirrors to see what I was doing (one in front and one in back of me). It looked great from far away, I was still concerned with how it would look if people had to stand close by me. It looked great...really great from far away. I was ecstatic that it blended so well.Here comes the problem. I noticed a few people that kept hovering behind me or looking in my direction oddly. I knew immediately that something must have looked bad enough to cause such attention. Mind you, no one mentioned anything to me. But I knew, when I got home and took photographs. Sure enough, the spotted pattern appeared (I included a customer photo above).Okay so maybe you're saying to yourself, "She should have bought the applicator!" And you're right, maybe I should have. But honestly, I wish someone would have told me that without the applicator this would make you look like you were some sort of hybrid of human and animal. It would have saved a lot of embarrassment. I"m not going to diss this product entirely, because it worked and it looked somewhat natural in terms of color and blending. But the experience after using, over weighs the pros.Here's another con: I must've spent 10 minutes applying that product and still the spotted pattern was still there. So that means, you're wasting product! You might not even get an even application after using the whole bottle (without the applicator). If you are still interested in this product, buy it with the applicator. I'm willing to try it, but honestly, I just want to hide under a rock until people forget this ever even happened.


