1350000000
5.0
review/summary: Don't be afraid to mix it up a little!review/text: I tried Dr Bronner's soap for the first time last week. I was going to buy it from Amazon, but with Fall allergies in full swing and my soap sensitivity worse than ever, I picked some up at my local Target.Now, I read a bazillion reviews on a bazillion different "natural" soaps, and I was shocked at what I found - most of them were loaded with chemicals and artificial fragrances! I've been a devout user of Johnson's Softwash for years, but they kept changing the formula and even it started bothering my skin :(I looked at the ingredients of the Dr Bronner's soaps and it was the first time I could ever read through the entire list and determine that there was no way I was allergic to any of the ingredients. I decided I had to try it.From the reviews I'd read, however, a large number of people commented on the extremely strong smell of the soaps. Me, I like my soap scented just enough to be pleasant and leave a lingering clean smell - if someone can point out what I specifically smell like, it's too strong.So I decided to mix it up!Bronner's carries two of my all-time favorite scents - peppermint and lavender, both of which were reported to be *very* strong. I ended up buying a bottle of peppermint, a bottle of lavender, and a bottle of baby unscented. I broke out a large glass pitcher and started mixing. I eventually got to a lightly minty herbal scent that was absolutely perfect:1 part Lavender2 parts Peppermint2 parts Baby UnscentedWith the scents offered, I imagine there are a multitude of great scents you could combine - Eucalyptus/Peppermint/Citrus would be a great flu time soap, Lavender/TeaTree make a great herbal combo, Citrus/Almond would make a good winter mix... and those tiny bottles make for fun mixing on a budget! And remember, if any of the Bronner's soap is ever too strong, just mix it with some Baby Unscented to mellow it out :)My skin is happy and soft without any itching or burning, and it turns out this soap is even great for shaving my legs! It lathers so well it's really hard to beat.If I had any complaint, it would be that I'd love to have more scents to play with - maybe some spicy scents like cinnamon, clove, or ginger, and soothing scents like sandalwood, vanilla, and chamomile, and maybe even some rosemary and patchouli.The idea of single-scent natural soaps that I could buy off the shelf and mix to my liking makes me far more happy than it should :D


