1350000000
5.0
review/summary: All Purpose Everything!review/text: What can't I say about Castille soap? About 4 or 5 months ago I decided to go simple with my cleansers and had always been perplexed by Dr Bronners...what in the world do you use it for? Well, today, I pretty much use it for everything but in my dishwasher Here is a little guidance from me and my daily life:1. Laundry Detergent for ONE load:1/4c Dr Bronners (I use peppermint for everything because you get it dirt cheap at Trader Joe's: $9.99 for 32oz--YES, $9.99)1/8c white vinegar. Got a great tip from a friend and put it in a downy ballDowny Automatic Dispenser--it will release at the rinse cycle.2 tbs Borax or Washing SodaChurch & Dwight Co 03020 Arm & Hammer Super Washing Soda. I prefer Borax because I feel like it gets things cleaner.2. Hand Soap:Get a foaming soap dispenser. Just go to Target and get one there than you think is cute, use all that soap and begin to use it. Fill bottle 1/3 way with water first, then add Dr Bronners (I use Almond--peppermint is too tingly and I have a 2 yr old). I add some tea tree oil to make it anti bacterial.3. Foaming body soap:Ok, I ended up washing out one of my foaming mousse bottles and now I use that in the shower. I fill 1/3 water and 2/3 Dr Bronners (I use Almond...I made the mistake only once of using peppermint. Ouch--it burns).4. Toilet cleaner:I squirt peppermint Castile soap and clean out. It works fabulous.5. Everyday household cleaner:I fill a spray bottle mostly with water and add some peppermint Castile soap and tea tree oil for antibacterial. Too much soap and you have a residue. Start with 3/4 water and 1/4 Castile and see where that gets you.6. Cats:I have a real jerk of a cat that seems to think the best way to express his displeasure is to pee in the kitchen. Nothing stinks worse than cat pee. I use full strength PEPPERMINT Castile soap and it completely eliminates odors, better than anything I used before I discovered Castile soap.Really, the flavor depends on what you like...and since I work near a Trader Joe's with super cheap peppermint Castile, my cleaning routine is 95% peppermint, except when it comes to anything body related *more flashbacks to shower incident*.


