1344297600
5.0
review/summary: Big change in pore size and wrinklesreview/text: I started using Thayer unscented and loved it. I had rose water so I added it to it. Well duh, I can just buy it with rose in it. I don't find the fragrance to be too strong at all but then I don't have a real sensitive nose like some people do. The fragrance is from rose water and fades shortly after it dries anyway. Natural Witch Hazel, Aloe and Rose water all bring wonderful properties to your skin.What I noticed:Pour size: I defiantly have seen my pours get much smaller! Especially on my nose. Big wow for this one.Eczema: I tend to get eczema on my face which really sucks. This takes it right away!! Thank you ,thank you. For those of you that suffer with eczema my number one recommendation is to stop eating grain!! That makes a HUGE difference. That is the only way I can get rid of it. When I cheat my body can handle it once in a while but no on a regular base. When I start eating grain it comes back. And then Thank goodness for Witch Hazel it takes it away quickly. I have used steroid creams which work, but this is actually faster and all natural!Wrinkles: Yes, it does help. I feel my skin is tighter and I a youthful glow back to my skin. It really is amazing. I'm 58 and look 40. What I eat makes a difference there too but Witch Hazel is fantastic. (food, stay away from sugar!! Ages you fast.) I never bothered with an astringent. What for. I have no idea what started me on it but I will never stop.Cleans: I know it moisturizes. I am not sure how but it does. I still feel squeaky clean, I put the witch hazel on t though out the day. I leave it on the bathroom counter next to cotton balls and whenever I am there I put some more on. Love it.Acne: I don't and never have had a problem with acne but Every once in a while one will sneak up, usually back to when I am not eating right. It does clear it up quickly when I use the witch hazel. I would say in two days. For those who say it brings on acne my only guess to that is it might be clearing out your skin big time and...what are you eating?? Can't blame it all on the witch hazel.Good stuff. I noticed there is lavender and many other choices. A real keeper as far as I am concerned!!


