1356825600
5.0
review/summary: So far, it's awesomereview/text: Ok, so I'll say up front I've only used this iron once. I'll update in a few months or so when it's gotten more wear and tear.I really, really like this iron. My hair is long- halfway down my back, curly- and very stubbornly curly. My normal straightening routine is drying it out most of the way with a blow dryer, then using a fat round brush to get it the rest of the way dry, then touching up with a flatiron. It normally takes at least an hour and a half, sometimes closer to two hours if a bit is particularly stubborn, not to mention the noisy blow dryer going and eating energy for so long. And if I do it more than an hour before walking out the door, I need the iron again to touch up.I got the two-inch-wide version, since my hair is so long and I have no intention of cutting it anytime soon. The digital display is nice- it blinks til it reaches the temperature you set it for, which is a nice obvious indicator (my old iron had no indicator- you just kinda had to guess). And it does heat up quickly. Mine got up to the full 420 within a couple minutes. The cord is a smidge on the short side- another six inches on it would've been nice, but it's definitely functional as it is.I let my hair air-dry yesterday to really test the iron, since letting my hair air dry for a while tends to make it even more stubbornly curly. It was definitely still wet when I started, a good measure beyond damp, just not dripping wet or anything. I set the iron to the full 420, let it heat up while I detangled and put straightening cream in my hair (I usually use a Pantene straightening cream that I've used for years and am very happy with). I clipped up all but a very small section and got to work (and you do need to work in VERY small sections with this iron, I found).The instructions clearly say to point the display and steam vents away from head and hands, which took a little maneuvering around the back of my head, but it wasn't too bad. The thing definitely had my hair sizzling, but a ton of steam was coming out and nothing smelled like burning, so I figured it was fine. Some chunks, especially further up my head, needed quite a few passes, but like I said, my hair was pretty wet. I did burn my head pretty good once trying to get into my roots- it hurt, but no visible damage. Just be aware the plates on this puppy run around the edges a little bit. I did notice the plates seemed to cool after running over a wet section, and giving them a couple seconds to heat back up made the next passes more effective. And 420 is HOT. Way hot. It is very easy to burn yourself if you're not conscious of where your hands are, and even on dryer hair as it comes out of the iron. And I just couldn't get to my roots without burning myself, so when I was done with the iron I took a blow dryer and just hit my roots on a low setting for 2-3 minutes.The results- awesome. I had pin-straight hair when I was done, no touch-ups necessary. I think because this iron gets so hot, once the hair dries and you're going over dryer sections, it really seals in the straight better. I went back up to check it a couple hours later before we left the house, after lying around on the couch on it, and still no touch up needed- it was still stick straight. We went out for dinner on a rainy, wet night, and yes I wore a hat outdoors, but mine is hair that curls at the mere suggestion of moisture, and when we got home, hair was still perfectly straight. Went to bed, humidifier on, woke up this morning, and all I need are a few minor touch ups at the very ends, which is hugely different from what I normally experience on waking up the day after. And it feels soft and looks shiny and healthy.As for time- it didn't quite cut styling time in half or anything- the total probably took 45 minutes to an hour. But it did give me some freedom- I can now shower when I want to, and as long as my hair doesn't dry completely (3-4 hours) before I get to straighten it, I can still straighten with good results. Before, if I let it air dry at all, forget it- my hair was not going to be perfectly straight, and to get it acceptably straight would be a couple hour chore. I did have to follow up with some cream after straightening- I guess it just got a little too dry- but I have to do that sometimes with the blow dryer anyway, so no big deal there.This iron simply is awesome, especially when you factor in the price. It's not going to take your styling time from two hours to ten minutes or anything, but that's simply not realistic. If this lasts a year, I'll be more than happy to shell out for a new one at that time, considering how difficult my hair is. And it does prevent sweating your brains out under a noisy blow dryer for an hour and change- the quiet and lack of sweat alone is worth it. I was very on the fence about this iron when I bought it, but after one use, to get it away from me will mean prying it out of my cold, dead hands- I'll never go back to my blow dryer and fat round brush!


