1350432000
5.0
review/summary: One of the lightest oilreview/text: There are about 3 oils that you can apply neat (100% straight from the bottle), for massage or as a carrier oil (to dilute other oils). One is expensive. The cheapest one is grape seed oil that you can find in supermarkets. It is supposed to be even lighter. The problem is that people don't use it for cooking don't like it because of hexane used to extract oil in large scale commercial operations. Indeed many cooking oil are exacted using hexane. Canola oil is banned for babies because of trace hexane. At least there are no grape GMOs. The other alternative is "lightened" coconut oil which is colorless without the usual hint of yellowish stain on bedsheets. But it's expensive.This almond oil is pale yellowish as shown, practically odourless. For the lightness test I rub it on my skin and rinse it off. You know the oil is there when the skin is wet. When the skin dries, you don't feel the oil at all. The palm area takes a little more time because the skin is different, totally hairless.For the real lightness test I applied it straight to the hair after shampooing. Then I rinse off as much as possible with warm water. When the hair dries, it not greasy enough that I can go to sleep with it. It doesn't look that bad the next morning. It is not possible with heavy oil like coconut. You can's stand it on dry hair overnight.My application is to make a hair lubricating rinse off lotion to prevent tangling of very fine hair. I tried to dilute coconut oil with glycerin. It didn't work that much because coconut oil may return to the solid state forming small particles. Also, one drop of coconut oil in several ounces of glycerin still make the hair too greasy. Almond oil is a lot better. 1/4 teaspoonful of oil dissolving in one to several teaspoonfuls of glycerin is good. I apply that to wet hair after shampooing, and rinse it off. There is enough lubrication without feeling greasy when the hair dries. If you add a little water to the mixture, you can use it as a leave on moisturizer for hair and skin.


