1350432000
1.0
review/summary: This Product Is a Disappointmentreview/text: I ordered the .36 oz in Light Blonde.I have diffuse thinning on the top of my head and wanted a way to tone down any shiny scalp areas near the side part. My hair is a light to medium neutral blonde shade. Based on some of the information I read, I believe I am exactly the "target" customer. Older with some thinning hair.I watched videos and read instructions while waiting for the Toppik to arrive. I applied it as per the instructions, with the exception that I peeled back the paper seal far enough to open only three rows of shaker holes. I was planning on purchasing the specially designed Toppik applicator as soon as I tested the small bottle.My first impression was that I could not see where the product clung to the hair shaft. In fact, all I could see in my bathroom mirror with incandescent lighting was a matte, dusty looking scalp that had a distinct greenish tinge. Yes, it looked somewhat greenish to me. Yellow green. Anyone who has experimented with hair color in the ash color range will understand what I was seeing.The product, as described and shown in literature, appears to cling to hair shafts via static, and it looks somewhat like cross-hatching in their illustration. At least that is what it reminded me of when I saw it. But the powder itself is a fine, fine powder with a slightly gritty feel. It does not look like the elongated fibers in the illustration. However, if you do a Wikipedia search on Ammonium Chloride, one of Toppiks ingredients, it is shown as having the elongated appearance, though this would be microscopic in size. So if you have a microscope, I suppose you could see something that might be fiber-like.I got a headache after using it and I think it was due to accidentally inhaling some of the fine powder as I tried to brush my hair. I needed to shower and wash my hair, face and neck just to make sure that I removed it all. I tend to have allergies, so I'm not saying everyone would have this reaction. That's just my reaction.I will never use the product again. I purchased it from Amazon and I am going to request a refund. I normally don't ask for refunds, and in the 12 years that I've been purchasing from Amazon, I can only recall requesting a refund on a physical product one other time, and twice with eBooks. So I don't do this often, even if the product is not useful. Because this product has advertising that I find very misleading, I feel that I don't have a choice.If you find the product works well for you, congratulations. But please don't tell me I am applying it incorrectly or that I will get better with practice. I will not apply this product to my scalp again.


