1356220800
5.0
review/summary: This is PERFECTION for 4C hair type!!!review/text: I am just getting into flat irons for the first time in my life. My first attempt was with a Conair mini flat iron and the whole experience left a sour taste in my mouth. Not so much because of the flat iron itself but because of the process involved. I had to blow dry my hair first and then flat iron and lets just say that when I was done, there was a lot of breakage and my hair didn't even look flat ironed enough so the hours invested felt pointless. I may very well just stretch out my fro with a blow dryer and be on my merry way.I almost gave up on flat ironing as a styling option but decided look up steam flat irons when a thought occurred to me, since my hair can really only be managed when wet, why not get a water friendly flat iron, a wet to dry? Enter the super light and easily wieldable 1", slim but long plated Remington Wet 2 Straight. This left my hair STRAIGHT AND SHINY! It dries hair very quickly too, in 1-2 swipes! It has been 4 days now and my hair is still straight and shiny! The whole process just took an hour because I am new to flat ironing so it will get much shorter with practise! And I only used between 340-380 degrees. Also, I didn't even detangle my hair and it looks like this. Imagine what it would look like if I took the time to detangle in sections.TIP: when flat ironing on wet or damp hair, do not go too close to the root on your first swipe because the evaporating steam will burn your scalp! I would start halfway, or a quarter way from the root and then work up closer to the root to avoid steam burn.This flat iron is perfect!! I just can't see any other flat iron including the more expensive ones catering to my hair needs like this one does. I had virtually no breakage from it and I am just a beginner! Even the most difficult clothing materials can be ironed straight when wet or damp. Clearly, that also applies here.~~~~~~~~~~~UPDATE January 12, 2013.Absolutely no heat damage in sight. How awesome is that for a newcomer and I hear about heat damage from my friends who get theirs done in salons. I highly recommend this flat iron to anyone with my hair type.


