1349913600
5.0
review/summary: I Use This for Everything, and YES it Works as a Shampoo...review/text: I love this soap...it is my body wash, shampoo, dish liquid, hand soap, etc. It is gentle and natural. Finally, something really natural! I'm fed up with all of these beauty products which claim to be natural or even organic, yet have nice list of chemicals on their ingredient list.This one bottle does it all, without the chemicals, and it works. I see many people who say this dries their hair when using it as a shampoo. I don't get that, as this is the only soap I could wash my hair with and not need conditioner.This does contain coconut oil which can be somewhat drying (as compared to a pure olive oil Castile soap), but it certainly is more gentle than the synthetic detergents in traditional shampoos (including ones which claim to be natural). I always needed conditioner after using a traditional shampoo. My fine, wavy hair always felt heavy and looked lifeless after using these shampoos and their needed conditioners.I began using Castile soap and decided to try it as a shampoo. The very first day after shampooing with this (no conditioner), I took a brush to my hair expecting tangles. There were none. The brush went right through my hair with no pulling, and when it dried, it felt clean and lacked it's usual overly-frizzy appearance (which was a good thing). I give the naturally occurring glycerine credit for taming the frizz and tangles.The more I used it (took about 3-4 shampoos), the better my hair looked and felt. This leads me to believe that traditional shampoos leave behind some of their ingredient, coating the hair and causing a nasty build-up (most likely the crap they add to hide the drying effects of the shampoo). Perhaps this residue when partially washed out is causing an undesirable effect on some who complain about their hair being unmanageable afterwards, and they give up too soon.I completely agree with the other reviewer who mentions that the crap left by other shampoos/conditioners needs to be purged from the hair. Then she states that the natural oils will then be able to penetrate the hair. This is right on.As I mentioned, I have fine hair, and therefore I don't need much product and it's easy to rinse out. It's possible some of the people who are disliking this as a shampoo may possibly have thicker hair. These individuals might need a little more product, or they are not working it through their hair enough. This soap does not have a high lather, and it is sometimes hard to know where it is going. It also needs to be rinsed thoroughly, something else that would be more difficult with thicker hair.If someone is to find it doesn't work for their hair anyway, and it still feels dry (perhaps damage from heat and chemical treatment like color?), a conditioner may be needed in addition. A little drop or two of jojoba or extra virgin olive oil worked through might be helpful if one wishes to avoid traditional bottle conditioners. Possibly even try mayonnaise as an in-shower conditioner. Olive oil mayo is a good choice and will help distribute some of the oil throughout the hair. Rinse thoroughly afterward as usual.


