1358121600
4.0
review/summary: For Thinning Hair...Not The Balding!review/text: I've always been curious about this stuff, since I have been losing my hair for about 25 years now. I never bought any because of the price, and, I am not all that self conscious about my balding anyway. However when a good friend of mine got some for his thinning hair I was so impressed by how it good it looked that I begged him to let me use it just once. The color wasn't exactly right but that didn't matter since it was only a test... Unfortunately I have to say that even though it worked very well on my friends hair that is only thinning, it was a total bomb for me who has a real beach head coming in on the top. Quite simply, one has to pay very close attention to the description of how this stuff says it works. It clearly states that it needs or works by bonding with your existing hair. If you have either no, or hardly any existing hair, it just comes out looking like a lot of very homely fuzzy stuff. I tried it all over the top of my head and it simply stuck to it, and then ended up looking like some kind of very short, fuzzy, sparsely covered type dog hair. Very ugly and fake looking and not at all worth the price or the bother for sure....As for how it worked for my friend I have nothing but praise. It was amazing the way it blended in and stuck to what thinning hair he had and combed out looking completely natural. If you really want to see how this stuff looks in use, type the name of it into google and go to videos. There are several online that depict a true demonstration of how good this stuff works on thinning hair. Even on very thinning hair. But not a one I found showed someone with a real Dr. Phil look, or even just a completely bare bald spot. Without some minimal hair to cling to you are like me, fresh out of luck and too late. If my hair was only thinning I would consider the hefty price of this worth it I believe. Just remember for the truly bald, its a bust...In conclusion, I decided to take off one star on the rating simply because I feel that despite this working very well on thinning hair, I believe that the description should more forcefully state that its not for bald heads. I don't think it does clearly enough to satisfy me. Not even the manufacturers web site that has a more detailed description says anything about bald heads. Personally I feel that the majority of the negative reviews of it comes from those that are too far ahead with hair loss and just came out with a big fail on their part. It was with me for sure. Highly recommended only for those with thinning hair that this stuff can cling too, and that feel hiding it well is worth the price... : )


