1357689600
4.0
review/summary: It works wonders!!review/text: Okay so I got my bottle of Dr. Bronner's Magic citrus scented soap today and used it to clean myself in the shower. I used it to wash my hair, my face, and every other crevice of my body. I first washed my hair with it and it made my hair feel waxy and weird feeling, which made me kinda worried at first but I just rolled with it. Then I conditioned it, and I read another good review on how to wash your hair and what kind of conditioner to use and did such. It is the first good review on 5 star reviews which helped me a lot in learning about the soap. Then I went on to wash the rest of my body. Lastly I washed my face. I then got out and proceeded to dry myself off and instantly noticed that my skin was soft. Although after about 10 minutes after I am out of the shower I start to feel some slight burning under my armpit and in some other spots of my body. The burning died down about after 10-15 minutes. So I thought to myself that is probably my skin getting used to the soap since it is used to normal soaps from throughout the years. I am guessing that is normal because I read more reviews saying the same thing and the people gave it a bad review. Other reviews also said that it burns their eyes even without getting any of the soap in them and that did not happen to me at all. So I came to a conclusion that maybe the soap reacts differently to everyone's skin and people should give it time for your skin to get used to it. The soap even came a day early that the expected delivery time which is always a plus. I bought a small 8 FL. OZ. bottle and it was only about 7 dollars which is not bad at all, pretty cheap if you ask me. The only downside to this soap, and maybe it is just with the citrus scented bottle, is that your body does not smell like citrus after out of the shower. Although it does leave your body feeling really soft but you do smell clean. NOTE: I only used this product once so far. But I am very sure that the burning and whatever other defects the soap does will eventually fade once your body gets used to this new kind of soap. So I recommend that you have an open mind about the soap and for first time users, GIVE YOUR BODY TIME TO GET USED TO IT. I am looking forward to using the soap more and looking forward to trying more scents. Hopefully they will make my body smell good, but if not I am just okay with that because the soap works wonders.


