1360108800
5.0
review/summary: First time using Bronner'sreview/text: This soap is wonderful. It feels so good on your skin and the smell is not overwhelming. It rinses very clean and doesn't dry your skin out at all, you almost don't need lotion afterwards. Also, this is the only thing that has helped clear up my skin. I've tried everything even Aztec clay stuff - nothing, but this soap really cleanses my skin and again, without drying it out. I juice a lot and I use this to wash my fruits and veggies, works perfectly I know my produce is clean yet I don't taste soap. Oh and best feature - a little goes a long way! I suspect this bottle last forever...well maybe not considering I use it for everything and on everything..lol. I'm a Castile Soap user for life!I looked up some uses for Castile Soap, here's what I found:1. Shampoo: Use castile soap as a stand-in for a harsh detergent-based shampoo. Give your head a break! Just mix castile soap with water at a ratio of 1:3.2. Laundry Detergent: You can make your own laundry detergent with simple, common ingredients. Save tons money and do the environment a friendly favor. It's a win-win! [...]3. Tub Scrub: Make a tile or toilet "soft scrub" out of baking soda and castile soap. Simply fill a spray bottle with a dilution of 1:3 castile to water. Sprinkling the area you wish to clean with a liberal dusting of baking soda, then spray the castile solution over the top. Scour with a sponge or scrub brush and watch the stains disappear. This also works great on crusty stovetops!4. Mopping Solution: Use 2 or 3 tablespoons of castile soap in a full bucket of water, and mop mop mop your floors to a sparkly new luster.5. Dish Soap: Make a dishwashing soap (for hand washing) or a liquid hand soap (for washing hands) by simply mixing a 1:1 ratio of castile to water.6. Dishwasher Detergent: Make a fancier DIY liquid dishwasher detergent that's inexpensive and eco-friendly.7. Soap Dispenser Refill: You can refill your foaming hand soap dispenser with 1 part castile soap to 4 parts water.8. Body Wash: You can use castile soap as a gentle yet efficient bath soap/body wash. They actually sell castile bar soap, but if you want to use the liquid just dilute it in a 2:1 ratio of castile:water.9. Dog Shampoo: What's good enough for you is even better for your pet! Use the same ratio listed above for an awesome DIY doggie shampoo.10. Toothpaste: You can actually use castile soap in place of your toothpaste, and pure soap is much better for your teeth than the nasty chemicals they put in most commercial pastes. Just add a few drops directly to your wet brush. It works wonders, although the flavor can take some getting used to!11. Veggie Wash: Make a simple veggie wash for cleansing all your produce. Add 1 tablespoon castile soap to 2 cups of water, and keep the mixture in a squirt bottle near the kitchen sink.12. Carpet Cleaner: Finally, you can make an effective carpet cleaner by mixing cup castile into 1 cup water. Place the solution in the blender and let it fly until it forms a stiff foam. Apply as you would any other carpet cleaning product.


