1355616000
2.0
review/summary: Utterly Decentreview/text: I'm not so sure what the rave is about this soap, I want to like it but am rather unimpressed.People say you can dilute it and it will last exponentially longer but yea you can water down any product and yes it will also last longer. But it's concentrated! In what way are other soaps not concentrated? If this was so concentrated, I would expect a thicker, more viscous product but this is quite watery. Surprisingly, it does not seem to lather well for me as others have commented. I noticed that when I apply it to one part of the body, I cannot easily spread the soap outward much further, and I must keep pouring more from the bottle. It does not seem to want to spread unless quite a lot is poured out. This certainly kills the impression that a little lasts a while. With traditional, actually concentrated soaps, I could apply a little to a loofah and it would lather quite well but doing so with Dr. B's required quite a lot of soap. At $15 a bottle this is highly uneconomical in my opinion.They say it has 18 or so uses but honestly so does standard soap most people just don't use standard soap in non-traditional ways. But think about, it all works. This is just clever marketing on Bronner's part.I found it rather difficult and required a lot of soap to remove simple cooking oil from my hands. It still didn't quite get it all off. I really don't care to do some serious hand washing I like it to be rather efficient and straightforward but this soap requires you to really work at it.The eco and "green" qualities of the soap are all good, but honestly my overall opinion is that it's just a very effectively marketed product. People are duped into feeling they've adopted some less consumerist, earth conscious, health conscious, etc., approach to their products, and maybe they have, and that's all good, but clearly Bronner's understands the market and how to appeal to its demographic's desires. The overly bland, regular label and bottle plus wild musings alongside contribute to the sense of a down-home, honest good, real, simple product. The illusion is that it isn't a well marketed product, it's a niche product without impressive graphical labels that only the right group "in the know" is aware of. But alas, this is, just another form of effective marketing. You feel like you have a one-up on your more pretty label buying, ignorant consumerist peers when you buy this soap. The high price justifies these sensibilities. It's quite expensive, so it must be good, right?


