1359590400
4.0
review/summary: Awesome!review/text: I've been using Biore pore strips for quite a while now, and I've found that using them after a shower (or bath) seems to work best. It helps if you wash your face to remove oil or make up so that the pore strips will stick better. The box says not to use them every day, but I've had no problems using them two to three days in a row. However, if you have sensitive skin I would stick to the instructions! My pores are particularly bad on my cheeks, sides of my nose, between my eye brows, and my chin (the dreaded T-zone). I just cut the strips in half to stick between my brows or on my chin and they work just fine. Don't try saving half a strip after you open the foil package though, because it just doesn't seem to work as well. Over the last year, I tried a few other beauty routines such as using facial scrubs, acne face washes, organic face washes, pimple spot-on correction medication, etc. and I've found that the strips work best for my skin type. I have no problem with tweezing or waxing/sugaring pain so these strips don't really feel like anything to me other than maybe peeling tape off my face. Also, don't do anything that might cause sweating when you have the strips on. Sit somewhere cool, put a fan on your face, or just hang out and do something quiet while it dries - I once forgot I had these on and started cleaning the house and the sweat/oil on my nose prevented the strip from working very well.If you are on Facebook, type in 'Biore Skincare' and you'll see a link for "Prove It!"points where you can enter in the "Prove It!" codes and get coupons, free pore strips (8 ct), deep cleaning cloths, etc. as you rack up "Prove It!" points. The codes comes in the pore strip boxes. I've been doing this for a while now, and it's a nice treat since the strips are a bit pricey (but well worth the money). The Biore site is nice because they don't post a bunch of stuff on your stream or your friends stream when you enter in your points or 'like' their site.FUN TIP: If you are ever in a Japanese store, go to the cosmetics section and they sometimes will sell black pore strips for men!


