1345420800
4.0
review/summary: So far, so good!review/text: Now, I admit I was hesitant upon reviewing this product, as I will go to any lengths not to jinx what I've seen as a decent difference in the quality of my skin so far. Hopefully this product isn't a fluke, but right now, I honestly don't think that it is. Let's go into more detail on my skin's history and present state, so I can really show how wonderful jojoba oil has been to me.In the past, I have had breakouts. Not very severe, just a few pimples here and there on my skin, nothing major at all. You could say I lucked out in the genes department when it came to acne, for some time at least. About a year ago, during my second year of college, my skin progressively got worse and worse, and I had no idea why. So I made some changes to my routine - I slept earlier, limited my dairy/gluten intake, ate healthily, started taking turmeric pills, exercised more often. All in the name of good skin again! However, to no avail. All over my face, I started developing little whiteheads, the sort of acne that takes its sweet time to surface, and when it does, not pretty! My face felt bumpy, and I dreaded putting on moisturizer in the morning, looking in the mirror (especially in bright lighting). In a desperate attempt to regain my self-confidence, I turned to jojoba oil, ordered this because of the raving compliments. Every night for the past week or so, I put about 2-3 drops on my fingertips and massaged on my face. Throughout the night, I left this product on my skin, praying for a miracle. No miracle, since I still have some bumps/whiteheads to deal with, but my face is now noticeably clearer. Jojoba oil cannot be touted as a miracle all-in-one type of deal, but what it can do for you is facilitate the recovery to healthier looking skin. Just keep with incorporating good exercise and eating habits into your life, get your beauty rest, and use this along with some tea tree oil to keep those pimples at bay, and I think that you will see a difference sooner or later. Genetics is one thing, but taking care of yourself before anything bad happens is another!


