1350172800
5.0
review/summary: Favorite for liquid foundationreview/text: I adore how this blends liquid foundation into the skin. It makes the skin look super natural and dewy afterwards. With a regular brush, you'd have to swirl it and really work it into the skin in order to avoid that sort of paintbrush stroke effect. With the beautyblender, you blot and stipple the foundation into the skin so that the makeup is perfectly blended in, and it is about a thousand times easier and faster to use than an actual stippling brush. It gives a flawless, dewy finish, and again, it is super fast and easy.Usage:Washing - Soak it completely through with water. I actually like to wash it before I use it, instead of right afterwards. Somehow, I think it's easier to rinse out the foundation that way. While it's completely expanded and saturated with water (don't squeeze out any water at this point), I pour some diluted Dr. Bronner's* liquid soap over the foundation stains on the sponge. Then, rub the soap gently into the stains to work it into a lather without squeezing out the water. You can rub out the stains more firmly as there are more bubbles. Run it under the tap to rinse out the last of the foundation and the bubbles. Squeeze out as much water as you can with your hands and then get the last of the excess moisture out by squeezing it while having a small towel wrapped around it. I found that washing the sponge like this tends to prolong the longevity of the sponge. If you're scrubbing at it while it's not lathered up, you have to scrub much harder, risking ripping the soft sponge.*Dr. Bronner's Magic Soaps Pure-Castile Soap, 18-in-1 Hemp Tea Tree, 32-OunceI use Dr. Bronner's tea tree oil liquid soap. You can get it pretty much anywhere now - Target, Rite Aid, CVS, etc. I was already using it to clean my make-up brushes - it's excellent for that purpose. You only need a few drops for each brush, swirl it around your wet palm, and watch it lather up like crazy and wash away everything until your brush is like new. Anyway, I use it on the sponge for pretty much the same reason I use it on my brushes. It doesn't dry out the brushes or sponges, it works super well, you only need a little bit, and it's cheaper than buying little expensive bottles of brush cleansers. Plus, tea tree oil has some natural anti-bacterial properties, which is the main reason I buy it in this flavor instead of the nicer smelling lavender or citrus one (though it's no big deal if you use another flavor instead). Anyway, I discovered completely by accident when I was trying to use up the last of my first bottle of Dr. Bronner's that it works even better when you dilute the crap out of it with water. It's easier to work the sponge into a lather, and now that I know this, one bottle will probably last me two years even though I wash the sponge every time I use it.Application - The sponge should now be slightly damp with no excess moisture. Then, dot liquid foundation all over your face instead of directly onto the sponge so that the sponge doesn't accidentally suck up the foundation. Use the beautyblender to dab at, stipple, and bounce that foundation all over your face until the foundation is evenly spread and absorbed. Don't swipe or rub. Well, you could, but the finishing effect won't be as nice or flawless. The pointy end is best utilized on and around your nose and eyes. This is especially useful when you're applying concealer to the under-eye area or any blemishes around the face since you can control exactly where it goes. The round end is for everything else.And....that's it! It's super fast and easy to use (I cannot stress this enough), and it has such a great and natural effect on your skin. My mom saw me using it one day so I gave her my extra one, and she absolutely loves it. She's sometimes a little heavy-handed with her liquid foundation as a result of using just her fingers to work in the makeup. Using this, her foundation is blended in much more naturally and even the color looks better. She said that even her friends noticed a difference with how much better her foundation looks. I just love how much faster this thing made my makeup routine while giving me a better finishing effect. So yes, this little bugger is highly, highly recommended and definitely worth the price since it will last you for a long time.


