1356048000
5.0
review/summary: Makes a Wonderful Body Washreview/text: I bought this soap in Eucalyptus to use as a natural alternative to body wash, and I could not be happier with it. I do not dilute it for it this purpose, I just load up my spa loufa with lots of water and squirt a bit of the soap directly onto it. It lathers up nice and thick and fast and really feels great. Yes, it is a little stingy in certain areas at first, but I found I got used to it very quickly and it no longer bothers me. My skin does not feel dry at all after I shower, but instead feels soft and rejuvenated.I have read reviews where people say their skin feels "filmy" after they wash with it, and to them I say that this is because we are used to using big name brand body washes which contain what are essentially industrial strength de-greasers. Instead of just removing dirt from our bodies when we use these types of soaps, we are also stripping away the natural oils from our skin, which are very important to the actual health and healthful appearance of our skin. Because Dr. Bronner's is a castille soap, it does not strip away that layer of oil, and so therefore you do not get that "squeaky clean" feeling you are probably used to. Also, it is not loaded up with artificial and chemical based "moisturizers," whose sole purposes are to replace the NATURAL oils of your skin so it does not dry out. At the end of the day, I would much prefer to use a soap which leaves my body's natural oils intact instead of replacing them with chemicals.I did try it as a shampoo, and did not like it for this purpose. My hair is very thick and curly, and I found it did not work well. Instead I use Kiss My Face products, the Miss Treated Shampoo and Conditioner, and they work great. I have not used the Dr. Bronner's for anything other than a body wash at this point, but I would absolutely recommend it for this purpose. If you have overly sensitive or dry skin, it may be a bit too harsh for you, but you could always try diluting it.


