1352851200
5.0
review/summary: So far, so good!review/text: After my old OLD hair dryer bit it, I started hunting around for a big-girl dryer that wouldn't break the bank. This item came up over and over again, and for the price, I figured it was worth a shot. I had been using a cheapy-McCheaperson dryer (that I've had since childhood--d'oh!), so I didn't think I could get something worse for my hair than that thing anyway!I have long, very fine hair that goes static crazy when it's dry out. While I didn't notice it at first, now that I think about it, my hair is not as static-y as it used to be. I also don't seem to notice as much damage to my hair as I used to, especially when it comes to split ends. However, I've also started to take better care of my hair than I used to and I now use preventative products such as a heat protectant and a tiny bit of Argan oil to help protect and maintain hair health, so while I've noticed hair improvement, I have no idea if it's from the hair products, the dryer, or both (I designed a very poor scientific experiment--too many variables. Sorry!). As far as dry time, I don't think I notice much of a difference, but my hair is very fine and I don't have much of it to begin with, so if my drying time was cut from 6 to 5 minutes, I wouldn't notice. I don't use the concentrator or the diffusor, so I can't comment on those. However, the dryer doesn't seem overly noisy or heavy, which I like, especially for the technology that's packed inside. I've also noticed that my boyfriend uses it every once in a while, and he never did that with my old one, so maybe it's sleek and cool looking enough that he reaches for it now? Hah, I have no idea! I also haven't had any problems with the buttons being in the wrong place, or anything like that. I wish it had a swivel and/or retractable cord, but it's not the end of the world that it doesn't. However, take note that those features are lacking if that is important to you!Overall, I haven't had the amazing experience that others have had with this dryer, but I think it's more due to the thinness and fineness of my hair. I haven't had any negative experiences, just haven't been blown away (har har) like some others have. I'd still recommend this dryer to others, as it's a decent dryer for the tech that's packed inside, even if those bonuses don't seem to change my hair's life!


