1356566400
4.0
review/summary: Protect Your Hairreview/text: I didn't buy mine from Amazon since I probably got it before Amazon existed! I haven't used it everyday for the last 7 years but it's gotten a lot of use!! I feel the need to write this review to help people who have outrageous expectations from this straightener or just don't know what they're doing! I was once inexperienced but am happy to say that I now know what I am doing and my hair is much happier too! I have ALOT of long, wavy, dyed hair.First off, using a flat iron of any kind puts a lot more stress on your hair! You're putting an extreme amount of heat right onto your hair! You have to protect it!!! You need to use a heat protector on it every single time you're applying heat onto your hair. It's the heat that damages your hair, not the flat iron itself.This isn't going to work well as a dryer for everyone's hair. Everyone's hair is different. Some people's hair hold water a lot longer than others. It will dry everyone's hair eventually but for some people it's not takes far too long but that doesn't mean that this is a pointless product for those people. I find it work best when my hair is damp so if you dry your hair most of the way or if your hair is still damp you can use this! At least that option is available. Some people can run it through their hair and get it to dry and straighten rather quickly. When you section off your hair, the smaller the section is, the quicker it will dry. Just because this is 2 inches wide, doesn't mean you can straighten huge sections of hair at once. Also, even though this should be common sense people obviously can't figure this one out, this product isn't going to straighten wet hair. It's not complete until the hair is dry! If you straighten your wet hair it's just going to curl back up as your hair dries.Make sure you're using a good, moisturizing shampoo and conditioner! Use a deep penetrating conditioner as often as necessary depending on your hair type and how often you apply heat to your hair. Follow the directions on the product. After washing your hair use a leave in conditioner and brush it through your hair. This helps moisturize your hair and helps detangle it and keep it from tangling back up while straightening it. I use an additional conditioning balm after brushing in the leave in conditioner. I take a few pumps and apply it to the lower portion of my hair where it's the driest and brush that into the ends first before brushing my entire head. I go ahead and spray my heat protectant spray on my damp hair even though I may not straighten it until it's almost dry. Since it takes too long for me to dry and straighten my hair all at once I prefer it to be slightly damp. Sometimes I pull it into a bun and straighten it when I wake up or I blow dry most of the water out of it. I make sure to spray more heat protectant spray on it again and brush it in before using the straightener. It's an absolute must to use it immediately before apply heat. Since this is Wet 2 Straight I don't have to wait for the spray to dry. Once I am done I use an antifrizz or shine serum on the tips which seems to help keep the ends more moisturized. After styling, I spray a light hold antihumidity hair spray on it. It doesn't take away from the shine. I may over use these products but I would rather be safe than sorry and it's working very well for me. Just remember that the more products you use in your hair the longer it's going to take for it to dry.When straightening your hair it's always best to section off your hair and straighten small sections at a time. This helps you get it even and not miss any sections. Also, since you have a lot more control it helps prevent pulling. What usually causes pulls is when some hair strays away from the plates and ends up under them but if you've sectioned off your hair and you're able to make sure that section is entirely in between the plates. If you can't section it off, doing a touch up, or just doing a quick run to get rid of the frizz and fly aways just be sure to make sure that you're not grabbing too much hair or have loose strands going everywhere.A major warning to everyone is that the steam is hot when you use this on wet hair. The slots in between the plates is where the steam is released and it exits the top of the straightener. If it's near your scalp it can hurt or if you have your hand above it. Until you are used to it or have the special gloves be very cautious of that. It might help to do a quick loose once over to let it dry some before going over it for a good run.It does have 3 groups of heat settings. They are numbered 1-30. 1 beginning the coolest and 30 the hottest. 1-10 is for dry, thin, somewhat straight hair. 11-20 is for medium/ thick hair or damp thin hair. 21-30 is for damp to wet hair and coarse thick dry hair. I always keep mine at 30 when it's damp and around 25 if it's completely dry. Using these different settings according to your hair type is very important to maintaining healthy hair. The hotter it is doesn't mean it's going to straighten your hair any faster. Find the right setting for your hair type when it's wet, damp, and dry and stick with those.I am preparing to find a new straightener since mine is obviously quite old but I am so worried that the new ones wont work as well and I have finally perfected using this one! I am more than likely going to go ahead and purchase this one before only the new ones are available since that is all that's available in retail stores now.


