1350086400
3.0
review/summary: Good purchase for a non-heavy use dryerreview/text: I needed a hair dryer to use about once or twice a month. I found this at a great price with mostly good reviews so I decided to purchase it. I am transitioning to natural kinky/curly hair and have BSL hair overall. I almost always air dry so i needed something to dry it if I was ever in a hurry. What I was looking for was: at least 1875 Watt dryer, Ionic, Compact, With multiple attachments (at least comb, diffuser and concentrator), Not too loud. This dryer fills all those requirements... except for one thing: no comb-attachment.Since this came with two attachments, I planned to purchase the third one from Revlon. For those unaware, Revlon hair products are licensed to Helen of Troy. I contacted HoT to inquire about which model of comb would fit this dryer, since most comb attachments are expensive and I did not want to waste my money. They were very fast to respond but no one could tell me if there was one available that would fit. After a week, I received an email saying that they do not make a comb attachment that would fit this particular model. They said that this particular dryer has a specific nozzle so no other attachments from them, or other brands would fit it. I was disappointed, since nowhere in the package or description page does it say this. Perhaps I was naive to think that a company would never think not to make other attachments that would fit their best selling economy model, other than the standard out of the box ones. Now I have to think if this dryer was worth it at all. Who wants to buy a separate dryer just for that one extra task?About the product:Pros:lightweight, unbulky overall.Heats up considerably. Warm is an adequate setting for me, but it might be too hot for someone with very fine straight hair.2 attachments, including the concentrator.good value for the price.fast shipping.Medium noiseCons:Cord is too short. Does not rotate easily either.Very cheap plastic, i'm afraid this could melt with heavy prolonged use.Can only be used with the specific attachments that come with it (2), which are not for sale separately (If you contact Helen of Troy they might send you some for free if yours break)Diffuser is a joke. Not long enough for long hair to dry effectively. The fingers are too short and it's not concave so the hot air just stays in the surface. People's heads are nor flat, Revlon!Conclusion:If you use your hair dryer very often, for long periods of time uninterrupted, this might die on you. If you use it very irregularly it's a good balance between the price and use. If you want to use other attachments other than the ones that come with it, you might be out of luck. If you are purchasing this solely for the diffuser, I would stay away from this. Would I purchase this again if it broke down? No, I wouldn't, but it will do for the time being.


