1350518400
5.0
review/summary: should i give it five stars if i only used the soap 1 out of 18 ways?review/text: I used the lavender liquid soap for homemade laundry soap... I haven't used Dr. Bronner's for anything else.I used mymerrymessylife . com's Recipe using Dr Bronner's:3/4 cup Dr. Bronner's Castile Soap (or other liquid Castile soap)1/2 cup Super Washing Soda1/2 cup 20 Mule Team Borax2 Gallons water[optional] 20-50 drops of lavender (buy at (Amazon or Mountain Rose Herbs)... you end up using 1/3C. of this formula per load of laundry[Go to the source for visual directions:[...]]32 OZDr. Bronner's Magic Soaps Pure-Castile Soap, 18-in-1 Hemp Lavender, 32 Ounce Bottlewill last you 4.5 batches using the formulation above. If you think about the average cost of Name Brand liquid laundry detergent it is maybe $5 per gallon.9 gallons of dr bronnners (4.5 batch yield) would cost $45 if it was 9 gallons of name brand stuff. This 32 OZ bottle costs about 14 dollars so... you do the math. Even if you were buying cheaper than the popular brands, this still saves money every year and is non toxic.I also would like to tryDr. Bronner - Sal-Suds Biodegradable Cleaner, 32 fl oz liquidbecause it's actually cheaper. The Sal-suds is formulated especially for laundry though so I hope the formula ratio is not different with the Sal-Suds since you're only adding washing power (washing soda & borax). Even so, play with the recipe, and it should still save you money:-)I am EXTREMELY satisfied with Dr. Bronner's for laundry soap.Why do I love it?-nontoxic-very economical-pleasing smell-great cleaning power!My personal experience with the formula was I did not use additional essential oils in the recipe because I felt it wasn't needed and I found putting 1/3 C. in my HE washer was a lot of cleaning power! Also, I've found that vinegar is a great all natural fabric softener... Clothes come out smelling like lavender and very soft. I've used vinegar with other laundry washes too and while it does make the laundry softer I've found that the homemade laundry soaps (dr bronner's/fels naptha) makes laundry the softest when it's dry. I've used all kinds of softener too-- diluted downey, snuggles, purex, etc. and vinegar is my fave because if you like how your wash soap smells then the vinegar makes it so your clothes still smell like the wash soap.I have used name brand liquid detergent (1/3C.) with Arm and Hammer, Era, Purex, Tide, [everything name brand and generic basically] before and my expectations have been exceeded with the Dr Bronner's. The scent is mild once laundry is dry and my husband said he likes to smell the scent while he's wearing the clothes... he hasn't said that since his days wearing Tide (what his mother used). I also want to bring up this is my second experiment with homemade laundry soap. I used the Fels naptha grated (5.5 oz bar), 1 C. each of washing soda and borax as a powder formula. Cleaning power was decent enough with 1 TBPS powder with each load in my HE washer but for towel loads I needed 2 TBSP or else not all of the load would come out smelling clean. While the formula is still very economical when I need cleaning power, I prefer the Dr Bronner's formulation for my towels/blankets because it comes out smelling like lavender and *softer than the fels naptha formula when using vinegar as a fabric softener.Yes, I know fels-naptha isn't great... but I'd bought like 5 bars of it before I'd read into it... so let me just say I'll use up what I've made and will switch to a castile bar soap when I get a chance. I really feel sorry for people's lungs if they're making liquid laundry soap out of the fels-naptha or Zote... The powder version was less messy and took less effort to make so it really really floors me that people bother with the liquid when there's a less toxic version. And an even better non-toxic version: Castile all natural non toxic all the way for powder OR liquid laundry soap.For those considering making their own castile soap with lye [lye can be dangerous!] from scratch:[...] This webpage has great visual directions and it's used specifically for laundry soap too.Simple Soap: 4 lbs of lard or vegetable shortening 28 oz water 8.5 oz of lyeI just wanted to compare/contrast my homemade laundry soap experience in case others were wondering about different options.As a laundry soap, i give Dr Bronner's liquid soap 5 stars!


