1355529600
1.0
review/summary: Heating Element and Switch broke. No warranty!review/text: I paid $99 for a real Chi flat iron just like this one at a local chain store 2 years ago. I didn't realize at the time that the fine print warranty inside the box says there is no warranty unless you purchase it "live" at a beauty supply store (where I'm betting you have to pay even more for it). I owned it for 2 years and used it about every other day and shelved it for the summer because I spend more time in water than on land. So as far as actual use goes, it was probably used about 250 times--less than a year. Even though I always kept the on/off switch in the "on" position and unplugged it to shut it off, the switch began sliding around in the casing and shutting the unit off. In addition, the heating element stopped working reliably. I was hoping if I laid out some cash when I purchased it, I might be getting a high quality product (which is what the reviews said at the time). I was expecting it to far outlast other models/brands, which were a lot less expensive. No such thing. What a piece of junk. You're just paying for a brand name on this, and apparently, not a good one. IN COMPARISON... I just purchased a Remington Pearl Flat Iron for $30. Here's what you get for $70 less... The same quality hairstyle. Honestly, there is no difference in performance! It takes the same amount of time and effort for me to straighten my hair and my hair has a natural wave in it, so even on difficult hair, I found NO difference between the Chi and the Remington Pearl as far as that goes. The small differences are: The Remington does not have the ALCI safety plug (but I don't style my hair in the tub anyway, so who cares), the cord isn't quite as long, it doesn't squeeze together quite as easily as the Chi, and while the Remginton Pearl is smooth over hair the Chi slides better, but 70 dollars better? No way. And if the Remington Pearl quits on me, it's at least covered by a REAL warranty and I'm not out a ton of money if it breaks after the warranty runs out. I'm betting if you've never used a Chi before and have no basis of comparison about the feel of it in hand, you will love the Remington Pearl.


