1347753600
4.0
review/summary: Fantastic makeup sponge, but priceyreview/text: I've been using my beauty blender for several weeks and I absolutely love it. The finish is far superior to that of a brush with the foundations that I use; although, I still feel its a little pricey for a sponge. Prior to using this, I'd been using the soho makeup sponge and really liked it. It's 1/4 of the price of a single beauty blender and really is a great makeup sponge. Is the beauty blender better? Yes, but when you factor in the price, I think the soho sponge gives it some competition. Others may disagree, but I'm not the type to regularly blow loads of money on makeup and I don't wear foundation everyday. True makeup-aholics will probably say there's no comparison. there is a definite difference in the texture and firmness of the sponge with the bb being the softer of the two. It's like the little holes in the sponge are much smaller on the bb; they're like micro holes. The soho sponge is soft, but firmer when compared to the bb. The soho sponge seems more prone to tears when cleaning too.If you're worried about spending too much money, I say go with the soho sponge as you can get it for around five at Walmart. I don't regret my purchase especially since amazon had the best price for the two pack Getting just one at full price is just not worth it to me. I probably will purchase the bb again.I use kiss my face peace soap to clean it. I also use more "natural" foundations (lavera, Josie Maran, tarte) and they all apply very well with both my soho sponge and the bb. the lavera is my absolute favorite as it's all natural and the bb makes it look completely flawless on my skin. I do need to work quickly though since it sets so fast. It's sort of a testament to how good the bb is when most people say that Lavera needs to be applied with your fingertips since its doesn't contain any silicones...the bb makes it look so much better on my skin than when applying with my hands. My only complaint is that it's such a pain to have to clean it after every use.


