1345161600
5.0
review/summary: Great for body & skin, good for cleaning, horrible for bleached hairreview/text: This will be a long review but I think its necessary. It's also very divided. It worked good for general cleaning, not necessarily heavy stuff though. And I loved it on my skin. I didn't try it as a toothpaste, maybe i will one desperate day lol. It helped as a deodorant and killed fleas on my dog. It's rated as a 4 only because I didn't like it as a shampoo. I've read tons of reviews on how people just love it as a shampoo, and complain that people that don't like it didn't give it enough time (they advise at least a week). Well I gave it a week and am now giving it up. I've read you're not supposed to wash your hair every day, especially with a real soap, so that is why I only used it every other day or so. Here is my story:DAY ONE- 1st I should note my hair is shoulder length, fine but fairly thick, & bleached blonde with light reddish brown lowlights. Received Dr. Bronner's Peppermint Soap & Shikakai Conditioning Rinse. 9pm washed hair with soap full strenth, probably used 1/4 cup, and poured 2-3 tbsp on rag to wash body & face. Smells awesome but loses lather fairly quick. Common sense, but avoid eyes! It dripped in mine a little & burned (yes they were closed tight) but I wouldn't expect any different it IS a soap after all. And any astringent type face treatment does that. Body felt SOOO crisply clean, with a cool tingly feeling. Super cold when you get out of the shower btw lol. Hair felt icky but I had read to expect that, and that the conditioning rinse helped. Mixed 2 caps of rinse with 1 cup of water, per instructions & poured into hair, rubbing in best I could & rinsed out. Result: Yuck! Hair felt waxy, grungy, sticky, took forever to comb out (literally OUT) & you could see the buildup on the comb. Dried gross too. Decided maybe I should have diluted the soap on my hair as instructions suggest (after I finally found the instructions on the bottle amidst the 3000 other words lol) My face looked a few years younger though, very smooth, pretty complexion. Skin wasn't dry at all. Fiance loved it on his skin too, and his hair felt fine.DAY TWO- hair still feels nasty all day. Researched internet & found that shampoos coat your hair with bad stuff & Bronners soap strips all that away, leaving your hair in its natural state (no wonder mine felt so damaged, I thought). Soaps are alkaline so the acidic rinse (vinegar, citrus rinse, etc) is supposed to balance it out and seals the cuticle back for protection and softness. Suggested a natural deep conditioning to revitalize the hair. 3pm-applied conditioning mix to hair (2 eggs, 1/3 c coconut oil, 2T olive oil) rubbed in really good & let sit 3 hours. Loved the way my skin felt after applying it (since a lot dripped & ran down my body) & decided to start using diluted coconut oil rinse on body in shower. 6pm- rinsed mixture out with water only & mixed shikakai rinse (3/4 cap to 1 cup water this time) & let sit a couple minutes then rinsed out. Hair still felt a little sticky but not near as bad. Hair dried WAY better but became a little greasy at roots (prob because of oil conditioning), but it felt a lot better than yesterday, not such a build-up feeling.DAY THREE- Put hair in ponytail & avoided all mirrors.DAY FOUR- Have to go to town so ponytail it is. Planning to avoid mirrors again. Ordered Dr. Bronner's lavender & coconut leave in cream, supposed to add softness to hair. 10pm- showered. diluted 1-2T Bronners Soap to 16 oz warm water & washed hair, that old familiar waxy build-up feeling came right back. Rinsed with 3/4 cap Shikakai to 1 cup water. Dried ALMOST as bad as the first night. Ready to give this up as a shampoo! Still love it as body wash though :) Maybe it's still not diluted enough, some people say only a few drops...DAY 5- 11:30am- cant handle this hair another minute! Hopped in shower, washed hair with water only & rinsed with Apple Cider Vinegar Rinse (ACV rinse) 1/2 cup ACV to 1.5 cups water. Hair feels amazing while drying, but stinks to high heaven, but I don't like vinegar smells. This could work except they only advice ACV rinses once a week. Had a little body to it once dried but kinda greasy lookin again. This is gettin old. Tryin hard to stick with it!DAY 6- 9:30am- at a hotel so just washed with water to avoid using standard shampoo & risking everything I've suffered for. My hair stinks!! I would rather just use a natural shampoo/cond with a few not-so-good things in it than this all the time. It did actually look good after drying, surprisingly, probably better if I'd had a straightener. Put hair up halfway through the day cause it stinks n I'm driving. Creme was delivered when I got home.DAY 7- Giving Bronners soap one more chance as a shampoo. This makes a week. 10am- washed hair with soap, 1 tsp to 16 oz water. Rinsed with 1/2 cap Shikakai to 1 cup water. Used 1 pump of creme and smoothed through hair. It helped with the tangles a little, but build up is still visible on the hairs on the comb that have been pulled out. Dried with that same waxy feeling. Bought Renpure Organics shampoo & conditioner at HEB later (Color safe, No sulfates, parabens, dyes, gluten, phthalates, propylene glycol).DAY 8- Shampood & conditioned with Renpure, used 1/2 pump of creme. Perfection :)Conclusion- Maybe it didn't work because my hair is bleached, if your hair isn't bleached or if you're a guy with short hair this could very possibly work for you. It stripped my lowlights of their color, maybe not necessarily the soap but something in the process did :( I'm looking at the positive side though and deciding that maybe all the toxic build-up from regular shampoo & conditioners is all stripped away now, and I can use the organic brand to maintain healthy hair. I would still highly recommend it for your BODY & FACE, obviously dilute it (a few drops on a wet rag is diluted enough) I even SHAVED with it but you have to use a lot to keep a lather going. I don't use "real" deodorant, I use the Thai Crystal mineral stuff, and it works ok but I noticed it seemed to work a lot more this week, I'm giving credit to this soap which does say it works as a DEODORANT. I bathed my dog in it one day and a few fleas fell off and I found a dead tick on her later, so I will definitely continue to use it as a DOG SHAMPOO, just not as mine. Sorry it was long but I hope it was helpful.


