1350172800
2.0
review/summary: Ummmm.....Maybe 2.5 starsreview/text: I was excited to try this and anticipated that It would act as several products. I'm trying to steer away from mainstream toxic products. I really like it as a body wash. The smell is great. My skin felt very squeaky afterwards. No heavy scent. I kind of wish that it would have left a bit more fragrance on my skin. The squeakiness subsided and skin felt smooth after. It's not the most amazing body wash ever but it's good and it lathers nicely. I also used it as a face wash. If you get it in your eyes it will sting so not the most gentle out there. After 3 days of using it as a face wash, my skin became very oily and I broke out in several places. I stopped with that needless to say! I was not at all expecting that reaction. So I decided to try it on my hair. I used a small amount and washed, then rinsed with 1 part vinegar an 3 parts water. I was surprised that right after rinsing, it felt smooth, not dry or greasy. I have read so many mixed reviews about it as a shampoo. BUT WAIT! As my hair started to dry, I noticed that my recent henna color from 3 days before was partially washed out. What's worse, my hair was extremely filmy and weird looking. Greasy basically. I tried drying it some more. Basically, when all is said and done, my hair looks like I have been swimming in the ocean and let it air dry, clumpy and dull. Now that may be a great look for some if you're into sporting that you've been at the beach all day, but It's Oct. In ME. and I was on my way to an art show. In addition, it FELT like petting a sheep, oily and heavy! Oh and my hair smelled like a sheep too. I guess it didn't actually clean my hair either. I guess dirty hair and citrus don't mix well! I found it comical. My fault for trying before an important event. I had to spray perfume on my head :/ I couldn't wait to wash it again. I got some organic, chemical free shampoo and conditioner and I'm pretty sure I'll stick to that. As far as using it as a cleaning product, haven't gotten that far yet, but there are so many natural cleaning products out there, so even if it works well? Asa body wash and cleaning product, I guess it's worth the buy. Just disappointed that It didn't work for more. I was really hoping to replace my face wash, body wash, shaving cream, shampoo, etc. so I give it 2.5 stars.


