1360800000
5.0
review/summary: An amazing product!!!review/text: I am a skeptical person....so before ordering this I did a lot of research. The claims they made seemed legitimate so I decided that it couldnt hurt to buy it once and try it.I am in my mid-20s and have started to see some thin areas in the front of my hair line, sort of above my temples. It started on one side in my early 20s, then on both as time went on. You could only really notice if my hair was short. I am an actor, so when I decided to start doing films after being mostly a theater actor for so many years, I grew out my hair and used to slick it up...sort of like a modern James Dean pompadour in the front. The rest of my head is fairly thick but very thin in the front. I didn't notice how thin until I saw myself in one of the rough cuts of my first short film. I was so embarrassed. Luckily the film was never completed or released. I decided that before I do another film, I should find a product to help. Since I wasn't thinning at a rapid rate, I figured a &#34;hiding&#34; solution could help for the meantime. I came across Toppik and (after research) ordered a bottle. I tried it out and instantly saw how it was covering my thinning areas. After two uses, I ordered the spray applicator. This was crucial!! If you want to have more control over where you apply, make a bottle last much longer, and avoid spilling it all over the place, buy the spray applicator. A bottle can last me months!! I'm serious. So I style my hair with some Axe paste, push up the front, and then spray Toppik to the thin areas in the front of my head and instantly my scalp is no longer visible through my hair! You also can't even tell that I'm using any type of product. I would advice getting a shade darker than your natural hair as it tends to look lighter than you think. I've been using Toppik for over a year and have only ordered my second bottle. It holds all day long, unless you get your hair submerged in water. It will run on your fingers if you touch the areas immediately after applying it but it will not come off on your hands later in the day... if a female happens to run her hands through your hair, dont worry fellas. Even if you go to sleep and wake the next day, it's still there! Only after you shower or wash your hair will it come out. It will rinse off easily with water too. It doesnt make your hair look or feel nasty. If you apply a lot and look really closely, you can see the little fibers attached to your hair fibers but only if you really look for it. I've never told anyone I know that I use a product and no one has ever commented on it, such as &#34;what's in your hair?&#34; In fact, I've been told &#34;you have great hair.&#34; I simply smile and say &#34;Thank you!&#34;This product has truly made a huge impact on me. My hair looks great on camera...it looks thick and full. I've recently decided to try a monodoxil regime in order to reverse or slow-down the thinning process. Luckily for me it is thinning slow but I imagine but my mid-30s I may have more apparent baldness. I have leading man looks and can't afford to be balding.Take it from me, buy this product! It works wonders. Buy the spray applicator too. I am a customer for life or at least until my thinning worsens.


