1360800000
2.0
review/summary: I wanted to like it. :( [Black Coconut AND Coco Mango]review/text: I wanted to like this, I really did. I ordered Black Coconut expecting a natural coconut scent that would take me to a warm and tropical place and was convinced it would take me there from some of the reviews about this particular scent.It finally arrives and I excitedly open it and take a whiff and.. it smells synthetic. REALLY synthetic. I'm talking Glade plug-in air freshener synthetic. I was highly disappointed at how synthetic and artificial this smells! Because it was an oil, I was expecting it to be composed in a more natural scent (especially because coconut oil exists!) but this literally smells like a coconut version of car freshener and you know you can't expect a natural scent out of those.I received this roll-on three weeks ago and tried to give it an honest chance by wearing it on my wrist and allowing it to heat up (as Egyptian Goddess taught me, a little heat can create magic!) but even when my body warmed it up and let ts scent disperse, I was seriously far from impressed.If synthetic scents are your thing and you don't mind an artificial coconut scent, then I'm sure this will be for you. But in my case, I find this smells terrible. I suppose I got what I paid for considering how cheap it's priced..:(***COCO MANGO***I ordered Coco Mango and Black Coconut and received them 3 weeks ago in the mail. While I was seriously disappointed with Black Coconut, Coco Mango was definitely the winner of the order. It's great in comparison to Black Coconut but to be honest, the scent by itself isn't impressive either. You can smell the scent of artificial coconut in this roll-on, but mango isn't exactly what I smell along with it. I warn you, the scents are quite artificial so you may not receive what you're expecting when it comes to scents from natural sources like fruits and flowers.The scent is.. sweet, but overly sweet. Sickly sweet, if that's a good way to describe it. It's also very strong so if you get this, I recommend using it sparingly. I honestly don't really care for the overly sweet scent (and this is coming from a fan of Aquolina's Pink Sugar! Irony!) so I either use it extremely rarely and sparingly or not at all.I suppose I can't really roll with this roll-on because of how synthetic it smells; when it comes to smelling nice, I want to smell natural, even if the scent is far from natural- unnaturally natural! But when I used Coco Mango and Black Coconut, I felt like I smelled like one of those cheap car air fresheners you get while paying your gas money to a store clerk.I wanted to love Coco Mango especially in comparison to Black Coconut. But it has not wowed me. It's.. decent.I had way better success with Egyptian Goddess, though!


