1355356800
5.0
review/summary: Best Soapreview/text: I can't say enough good things about Dr. Bronners. I had wanted to try it for quite a while, but hadn't gone around to it until I saw them in the sample section at Target. I thought I would give them a try. I was hooked right away. I love that they are natural, vegetarian soaps made responsibly. I got the lavender and peppermint initially. I like both, but I actually think peppermint is my favorite. I use it every morning and it helps wake me up a little (has a great tingly sensation).After reading about the company history, I decided that even if I hated the soap (which I don't, obviously) I would buy from this company! Their products are made in the USA and their employees are treated wonderfully. They actually practice fair trade and when they say organic, you can actually trust that it is. The company is very active in social causes. There aren't too many companies like this anymore, so I think it is important to support them.My husband was a little skeptical (as usual) but the soap spoke for itself and now he is a convert, too. He is very picky about scents, but he has not complained of a single one. We decided to try the almond scent since there were so many good reviews and we both could agree on it. It smells very much like almond extract, which I love. It goes without saying, though, that if you don't like that smell, then you won't like this particular scent. Like all of the ones I have tried, the scent is quite strong, but natural smelling.Being a natural soap without weird chemicals you can't pronounce, the lather on this is minimal, but you get used to it (once you get over the mindset that the lather is what makes you clean). However, if you must have your lather, adding it to a shower pouf creates an abundance. I have tried the soap for cleaning and it works quite well. I use it on my extremely sensitive and adult acne-prone skin and it has not caused a breakout. It rinses away cleanly. My daughter and I both have eczema and we both have been using this soap without problems.Bottom Line: I cannot recommend this soap or this brand enough! It may seem expensive at first glance, but a little goes a long way. Personally, I think it is worth every penny.


