1359676800
5.0
review/summary: Stripmine that nose!review/text: Bior&eacute; (registered trademark) brand DEEP CLEANSING PORE STRIPS are a Godsend to people like myself and my wife. We are of Jewish and German heritage (I of course have a dash of Mexican Indian and black) and BOY!! - do we ever suffer from blackheads. All of my family suffers from them and never could we find the right cleansing agent to remove them. Can you imagine some poor old lady scrubbing her nose with a broken piece of brick? Well, my mother used to do that.The blackhead is a problem that is specially dedicated to the nose. Bior&eacute; strips solve that problem and there is a weird bonus at the end of the process. With this technology, appealing as it does to our Cro-Magnon urges, it can't get any better.You wet a strip and place it across your nose as if it had been broken. You let it dry there, until the strip feels tight, then rip it off - presto. If you examine your nose, the black dots are gone. If you examine the working end of the strip, you'll see a marvelously disgusting forest of upstanding black "things", which are the blackheads it just tore off your face.What is cooler than that?!There's no pain, no fuss, and you can keep doing whatever it is you need to do while wearing a Bior&eacute; strip. Only be certain to remove it promptly. I talked to a friend who told me a hair-raising story about putting on a strip and forgetting to remove it. It ultimately fell off, at the worst possible time. That's just plain funny as hell, but don't let it happen to you.The first time you try this product, you'll be thoroughly weirded out AND 100% satisfied with it. I tell you, there is really nothing like examining that black forest the strip ends up pulling out of your face. You won't believe it the first time you see it, and you'll never tire of examining it.The only disappointment you'll ever feel is if the problem is not that bad, you won't see much of a black forest left on the strip - it will mean there wasn't much to pull out in the first place.You can't afford to wait trying this awesome hygienic-beautification product. Let me tell you, your blackheads already fear this!


