1355270400
5.0
review/summary: Smells great and the product delivers!review/text: So I have had this bottle for quite a while. I still have a lot of the bottle left. I bought this product for the purpose of cleaning in hopes that my house would smell like wedding cake. The scent isn't as strong as some of the others in this line. It does smell very good though.my favorite way to use this product...- I have a large white fiberglass tub and boy does it get dirty! With a husband who tinkers with restoring a car and two children who are attracted to dirt, my tub gets nasty. I use this along with baking soda as a safer alternative to comet. The tub is large enough I have to get in it to clean it. I sprinkle a small amount our baking soda on each side of the tub, then add a few drops of this and stir it together to make a thick paste. Then I rub my cleaning cloth in it and it effortlessly takes off all of the grime. It's like I am cleaning the tub with almond icing. I can't help but smile when I do it. It has completely changed my relationship with my tub.-it is amazing on dirty grout also! I sprinkle a tiny bit (very small amount, much less than you think) on the grout lines on my flooring. Then one drop of the castile soap and rub it with a towel and again effortlessly the grout returned to a color I never knew was there.-I also make a all purpose cleaner by putting 1/4 cup castile (or less), a 1/2 cup borax and hot water in a squirt bottle. Shake before each use. It cleans my granite counter tops, stove top, doors, walls, you name it.This product really works well, especially if you are going all natural or trying to save money. This one investment will save you lots of money! The uses for it are endless. I listed my top uses for it. I have also made dish liquid and window cleaner. Tons of recipes can be easily found on the internet. It last much longer than you think it will.Another note- I also have the peppermint, which I bought only for the anti bacterial properties and I think I may use it more than I do this one, Only because the smell of the peppermint is stronger. And I like things that have a lot of scent. You can't go wrong with the product. It delivers, buy the smell you think you will enjoy the most. I am very happy I made this purchase and will buy more when I run out, but it's so super concentrated, I am certain it will be quite a while until that happens.


