1349395200
5.0
review/summary: Great Mirror, Greater Pricereview/text: I am very glad to have found this on Amazon, Prime eligible, and cheaper than anywhere else in stores (It's in Ulta for 39.00). I have been needing a mirror for the longest time because my bathroom lights are orange, unflattering, and positioned to where they cast ugly shadows on my face. They're also fairly dark.Firstly, I LOVE the fact that this mirror's magnification side is a flip-feature. It doesn't bother you or even need to be used unless you want it. I find it extremely helpful for close details, tweezing, and anything else that I tend to notice when being critical of myself throughout the day. I like that it's large as well. Now I don't have to worry about finding stray details or flaws that will bug me all day long, because now I have the right tools to fix myself up properly.Secondly, I love the three-way feature. I can see the sides of my face and other features without having to move all over the place. They can also be adjusted to reach the angle you want.This mirror is bright, which is excellent. They're also facing you directly, so there isn't any ugly shadowing of your features that can often drown your face out and cause you to miss details or colors. One thing of note is that of course, even the daylight option will not emulate daylight exactly; when placing bronzer and things like that, I have often found that the colors are more intense in actual daylight, whereas I feel as though I have to keep building colors when I see myself in this mirror. The bright lights do tend to lighten up actual colors, so just be wary!Also, the various light settings are neat, but I find them a little useless. I like to ALWAYS prepare my makeup in a more natural light setting, which is the general rule for all makeup, but I can see how it might be useful to others to try and create a look that will be flattering in specific situations. So it is a great added feature, but not a necessary one for me.The stand is great. I was worried about it perhaps falling over or not staying steady, but I have had no issues. It stands at various angles (another great feature) and is very sturdy. I do wish the cord was a tad bit longer, as it seems to only be a few feet long, but that's something I can live with. The fact that it folds up makes it extremely easy to transport.I've had no issues with the lights yet, but I've only had it for a few weeks.


