1355097600
5.0
review/summary: Almost a Miraclereview/text: I'm a 23 year old female, and have been biting my nails my entire life. Any time there is even a little bit of &#34;white&#34; at the top of my nail, its gone within the day. I've tried to stop many times, but I'm the type that bites them when I'm sitting idle (at a movie, watching tv, etc). It's a gross habit and I've wanted to stop many times but have not had success. I'm getting married in June and decided I want to quit this disgusting habit once and for all.I was impressed, but skeptical, at the large number of glowing reviews on Amazon about this product, and the bad reviews were a result of improper use or not following the directions. I decided to give it a shot. I ordered it and it sat in my house for about a month. I was SCARED of what it might taste like! Finally, I decided to give it a try. The first two days I didn't get a taste of it at all as I was very conscious about putting my hands anywhere near my face. However, by the third day, I didn't really think that much about it. I got some vegetable dip on my thumbnail and when I went to lick it off... YUCK! This stuff is gross, and it definitely does linger.I've been using the product for about 3 weeks now. While the urge to bite my nails isn't gone, I am happy to report that I have not bitten them while the product was on my nails. I did go through a four-day period after my first week using the product where I didn't apply it at all and promptly bit all my nails once the polish wore off. Darn it! But after reapplying, I'm back to letting them start to look nice again.I've found what works best for me is to paint them a pretty color with a good quality nail polish (one that won't chip easily) and then continue to paint the Mavala on every morning during the week. I've found that if I can't see the whites of my nails growing longer, then the temptation to bite them is not as strong. This, coupled with the Mavala, is finally making my nails look normal. My cuticles also look healthier overall. I am hopeful that with continued use of this product over the next few weeks, the urge to bite them will finally be gone (and I can start eating finger foods and dips again).


