1344124800
5.0
review/summary: Absolutely LOVE this product!review/text: I NEVER write product reviews but I felt the need to write about this straightener. I got the 2 inch Remington wet 2 straight straightener for Christmas in 2010 and it is by far the best present I got. My hair is thick, wavy and difficult to style! I didn't think this would really work and honestly the thought of putting my wet hair in a straightener kind of scared me(I like my hair and didn't want to burn it!) but I gave it a try and now I love it! I would totally recommend this product to anyone!I do have a couple of tips for people who are either considering this straightener or people who have it. First, as with all straighteners I would recommend using a heat protectant (this just helps protect your hair from drying out and becoming frizzy). I use a spray on glosser that has an olive oil base that I love.Second, there are steam holes on the side of the straightener. These are to be pointed AWAY from your head! I read reviews from people who said they burned their heads and I'm so sorry that happened to you (I've gotten steam burns while cooking before and they really hurt!) but if you point the side with the holes away from your head you will be just fine.Third, if your hair is thick (like mine) you'll probably want to first separate your hair into sections (I usually separate mine into 3 sections, the left side, right side and the back). Then take the first section of hair and use a hair clip to pin part of it up so you can straighten it layer by layer from bottom to top. I have friends who have thinner hair and they are lucky enough to be able to straighten all their hair at once but I am sadly not one of those people. However, with a little time and patience your hair can look just as beautiful as theirs [if not more because let's face it thick hair is totally GORGEOUS! ;-) ]I hope this helps you make your decision because I understand the importance of hair care products! And whether you choose to buy the Remington wet 2 straight straightener or not I hope you are able to find the perfect straightener for you! (But honestly I think you should get this one cause it's pretty awesome)


