1344038400
5.0
review/summary: simple but perfectreview/text: People have been drinking coffee since at least the 15th century. It doesn't have to be complicated, and you don't need to pay $5 at starbucks to get a good cup.The bialetti is mechanically very simple, it breaks down into 3 pieces, the top, bottom, and filter. It is very easy to clean, as you don't need to wash it with soap, and you shouldn't put it through the dishwasher. Just rinse each piece after use, and leave the coffee's oil coating the aluminum. It is a classic design that is beautiful enough to leave out in the open. For those who are concerned about using an aluminum product, there is no hard evidence connecting aluminum to alzheimers. Amazon deletes external links, but you can read about this on reputable sites like scientific american, with a little google searching. Don't let myths keep you from using a great product.This 3 cup variant makes enough for 1-2 people. The 3 cup rating is for espresso cups, not for the ubiquitous american coffee mug. It usually produces about 6 oz of coffee for me. The pressure from the moka is not as great as a true espresso machine, but is strong enough to make a coffee much stronger than a drip machine, and with the right coffee, it tastes great. I am currently using a Gevalia espresso roast. Illy is also very good, and makes a moka blend specifically for these pots. I have also used bustello with this pot, and it is good if you are on a budget, but because of the flavor of that coffee I prefer to mix it with hot fresh milk and raw sugar for a cuban style coffee.You may need to experiment with heat and grind to find the best combination. Keep the stove heat pretty low, though, if it is too high you can burn the rubber gasket which seals the top and bottom components. If you do make this mistake, bialetti sells replacement gaskets, which you can find here on amazon. Just make sure you get the size which matches your moka pot. Also, you don't want to leave it on the stove so long that the coffee in the top portion boils. Once the top is about half full, you can remove it from the stove, and the pressure will still push the rest up.I can recommend this moka pot without reservation for any house with 1-2 coffee drinkers. It is my favorite way to make coffee at home. It makes delicious coffee, and is simple to use and maintain.


