1355529600
5.0
review/summary: The (2nd) Best Coffee Makerreview/text: I purchased my Black Chrome unit from Macy's about three years ago and I've had no problem with it, although I only brew about three cups at a time once or twice a day and usually turn it off right after brewing--it's set for maximum of twenty minutes warming in any case. So for me the 1-4 cup setting is useful because it double heats the water to make sure it's hot enough for small batches, and the cone-type filter is supposedly better for smaller batches. I recommended this coffee maker for my father's household and they brought two units (brushed stainless), which only lasted about 6 to 8 months before failing to work; however they brew a full pot twice a day and leave it on 4 hours each time--but it still shouldn't burn out that quickly, especially alternating between 2 units. Some people have units working perfectly for eight years or more, others burn out in months or a year or two; seems to be hit or miss. After reading all 3160 reviews posted here (just kidding), it seems the average life is two to two and one half years. But if you look at reviews of all the other brand models, they're no better, and all have various issues of some sort. At least I find the Cuisinart extremely attractive and it brews excellent coffee--this is verified by many reviews. Several other superior features of this unit are the handle of the carafe, which has a vertical space of 4 1/4 inches so it doesn't cramp your fingers like some other models, and the carafe is also very well balanced which makes it easy on the wrist and less likely to drop or spill. The lid snaps on with a watertight fit so It doesn't drip when pouring. Some people complain that the condensation when you open the lid drips down the back and wets the counter, but I haven't have found this to be a problem--there is a curved lip on the center of the back near the top with a drain hole into the reservoir into which the bottom of the lid nestles when fully raised to drain this condensation; maybe people don't fully raise the lid to connect it to the drain and that's the problem. The interior "dipstick" of the reservoir with stepped or staged markings is hard to see; I have to peer down into the narrow opening while pouring water (from the bottled spring water which I use), trying to gauge the level between the 2 and 4 cup markings. I previously found it even harder pouring the water into the carafe first to measure it and then into the reservoir, but as one reviewer pointed out, the carafe spout hooks nicely on the curved top edge of the side of the reservoir making pouring very easy; I've started doing it this way now. As I mentioned, I use spring water, and I don't use the filter. I've only decalcified it several times and the self-cleaning light has never come on by itself to indicate it needed decalcification--I hope it's working. One little anomaly that I pointed out to Cuisinart not long after I got the unit about three years ago is that if you operate the 1-4 cup setting as it specifies in the instructions, that is turn it on after you turn the unit on, it works; however the 1-4 cup function button can be lit up by pressing it even before the unit is turned on, but it does not work unless you turn it on after the unit is turned on, as per instructions. One serious problem that is frequently mentioned in reviews, especially on ConsumerReports.org, is that of the units not only failing, but smoking, melting, and even catching fire. One would think if there were really as many incidences of this happening as reported on these websites that there would be a product recall. Wouldn't Consumer Reports issue a statement, or the Consumer Products Safety Commission look into it if these incidents are reported officially? One reviewer said that Cuisinart told him there was a problem with the hot plate element and it had been remedied--one of the few admissions of a problem it seems Cuisinart has given anybody. When my parents' coffeemakers failed after about a half year, I called Cuisinart customer service on their behalf. The rep first insisted that it be decalcified and that was the problem, but it wouldn't even run so that was impossible; then she told me to unplug it for a couple hours to reset the circuits--that did no good. More recently when I mentioned this failure of two units over two years ago and that they brewed a full pot twice a day and were left on for four hours each time, the representative said that shouldn't be a problem, they have customers who do that for many years with no problems. As others have said, it seems that every step of the way they try to deny that there's any widespread problem or that others have the problem you're having, when they must get a lot of complaints about these problems. Maybe I've been lucky because my unit has no defects or I brew small batches and turn it off shortly after brewing each time. In any event, it brews excellent coffee, and aside from the reported risk to house and home, this may be the best coffee maker around. --- PS After purchasing the Cuisinart DCC - 2800 coffeemaker, it has replaced the DCC - 1200 as the best coffeemaker in my (and others') opinion--see my review of the Cuisinart DCC - 2800 Perfect Temp Coffeemaker.


