1349308800
5.0
review/summary: Good bottle for any job, maybe the best cycling bottle with some tweaksreview/text: Don't mess with anything else, this one is the best. It's a tad more expensive at Target than Amazon, but you can check it out there.Like any vacuum bottle, it keeps cold stuff cold and hot stuff hot far longer than anything else, simple as that.But this one is a tad better than any other sport or commuter vacuum bottle out there. I've used my collection of em for a year, dropped them god knows how many times (just one permanent ding, no punctures), put all kinds of weird crap in them, and I can keep on chugging from them. Its also usable with one moderately-dexterous hand.Only thing wrong with it is the gasket under the cap which seems to fall out easily on new bottles. After a lot of uses it seems to dig in good. But if you lose it, your bottle will conspicuously leak and you will have to pinch a gasket from the aforementioned Target :-)To use this in a bicycle bottle cage, get theCamelBak 0.75 Liter Insulated Bottle Carrier. Its a neoprene sleeve that shims the bottle enough to fit snug on all my bikes. Fits it well and the grey one looks most similar to an uncovered bottle.For even better on-bike hydration, I bought a New-Old-Stock Nissan Thermos off ebay called the FBE500 - it is the almost the exact same base bottle but has a traditional teeth-operated push-pull sport top which also threads onto my new Intak bottles using the same exact gasket. This particular bottle works great with only one hand, holding the bottle firmly which is what you must do while riding, not fiddling with latches, buttons and screw-tops.I can't find it anywhere available to buy new except as a custom-engraved promotional bottle, at Lazer Designs.There was also an FBE700 model way-back-when for 26oz!That might be a bit of hassle to source, but this sport-top & neoprene carrier combo is the best "hydration system" I've ever used for long-distance cycling. No more mega-dorky backpack or rack-mounted bladders and scuffed up plastic bottles full of boiled bleach water when rolling across the Arizona desert during summers, or lukewarm coffee and cocoa in the winter. 36 oz from two bottles is pretty substantial, and seems to last longer for me than a big bladder pack since a little sip of ice cold water does a better job of quenching my thirst than a big gulp of irradiated hose-spray.


