1346457600
5.0
review/summary: A great addition to our kitchen ...review/text: This Ice Cream Maker has turned out to be just what we wanted. The machine is much easier to use than the large 4-quart machines, where you have to add ice and salt, and its two quart capacity is better for us than many of the smaller machines that use a re-freezable bowl system like this one.I carefully read the reviews here and elsewhere before we chose this machine and made our first batch of ice cream, and the tips provided by others were great, and helped us, I believe, from making any of the mistakes that lead to most of the few negative reviews I have seen.Re-freezable Bowl vs. Ice and Salt methodsAn ice cream maker is basically a machine that churns your mixture in a container that is cooled below freezing. The traditional method has been to put your mixture in a canister with a paddle in it, that is then partially immersed in an ice water and salt brine, where it is churned into ice cream. The temperature of ice water is 32 degrees, but not below. Adding salt to the ice water, allows the temperature of the water to drop below freezing. With the re-freezable bowl method, you have a liquid sealed between the double walls of your container, and all you need to do is put the whole container in the freezer and freeze it solid before you begin to make your ice cream.There are some distinct pluses and minuses to each system. The two main advantages to the ice and salt machines, are 1) that you can begin to make your ice cream immediately, without waiting to freeze the container, as long as you have a bag of ice handy; and 2) these machines generally have a much larger capacity, such as 4 to 5 quarts, rather than the 1 to 2 quart capacities of the re-freezable bowl machines. The main disadvantages of the ice and salt machines are 1) adding ice and salt can be messy; 2) if you don't get your mixture of ice and salt right each time, you may get inconsistent results; 3) the large capacity of the machine means making ice cream is usually a "back porch operation" or maybe the kitchen floor, as the machine is too big to simply use on your countertop in many cases; 4) if you don't eat all of the ice cream, it may be hard to find storage space in your freezer for the left overs in a 4 quart or larger container; and 5) because of the large size of the machine, you'll probably end up storing it in a box in your garage, where you will forget you have it and rarely use it.On the other hand, the advantages of the re-freezable bowl system are 1) the compact size of the whole appliance is small enough that it fits on most counters as easily as any other blender, toaster or counter-top appliance; 2) there is no mess, as the freezant is sealed between the double walls of the container; 3) there is no guesswork, about how much salt to add; 4) the two quart capacity of this machine makes it capable of doing all of the recipes written for any of the 1, 1.5 and 2 quart machines; 5) the two quart capacity is plenty for most families; 6) if you keep the machine on your counter, and the freezer container in the freezer, you'll find it convenient and easy to use the machine any time you want with minimal effort to set it up. There are some disadvantages to this machine, and they are 1) if you don't keep the freezer container in the freezer, you will not be able to jump up and make some ice cream when the kids ask for it, as it will take several hours to freeze your container first; 2) the two quart capacity may be too small for larger groups; 3) unless you have a way to keep your container frozen, the machine may not be as ideal for use in remote locations, such as on a picnic, where it may be easier to buy some ice locally and make the ice cream in a traditional freezer (with a hand crank if no electricity).So to sum up, you have to assess your needs carefully. If you plan to make ice cream for a Boy Scout troop on day three at Camp Chawanakee or wherever, you're going to need the larger capacity of the ice and salt machines, and probably the convenience of buying ice locally rather than trying to figure out how to keep the freezer container frozen until needed. But if you are looking for a convenient countertop machine for your family to be able to enjoy ice cream at home whenever you want, without the hassle of setting up the big machine on the kitchen floor, then this machine is perfect ... just remember to keep the container in the freezer.The secret to good resultsAlong with this machine, we purchased the "Ben & Jerry's Homemade Ice Cream & Dessert Book" as we wanted as many good recipes to go along with our new machine as we could get. In a section under "Ice Cream Theory", the book emphasizes that you don't need to be a pro to make good ice cream, just good ingredients and a sense of adventure. It also says, "there's no such thing as an unredeemingly bad batch of homemade ice cream ... if you start with the right stuff, get it cold enough, and take care in what you do, you'll come out with something good."The first and most fundamental rule of ice cream making is that you have to get your mixture cold enough. The only way to do this is to make sure you start with your container frozen solid. It cannot be emphasized enough, that there are no shortcuts here ... the best way is to put the container in the freezer overnight, or better yet, just keep it there when not in use. Also important, is to make sure your mix is chilled before putting it in the machine. Some recipes call for you to cook your mixture before churning it, and when you do this, you never want to pour the hot, or even warm mixture in the machine. Chill it thoroughly in the refrigerator before you start. When cooking is involved, cook the mixture the night before, chill it in the fridge over night (and make sure your freezer container is in the freezer), then jump up the next morning and put the chilled mixture in your frozen container and churn it. It will turn out great!"Cooked" vs. "instant" Ice CreamsThe Ben & Jerry's book mentioned above is full of great recipes. Most, if not all, require no cooking of the mixture (and therefore no cooling time), and therefore, if you have your container in the freezer ready to go, allow you to mix up a batch, freeze it, and be eating ice cream within the hour. We have noticed, however, that the ice cream, though delicious, doesn't seem to be quite as smooth as store bought ice creams. On the other hand, we initially completely ignored the recipes that came with the machine, as we had ordered the Ben & Jerry's book. Later, however, we found some recipes in the machine's recipe booklet that required cooking the mix before freezing it. We have found that the cooked mixtures, which require more time to cook, and more time for the mixture to cool before you can put it in your freezer, come out amazingly smooth and good. The Vanilla Bean Ice Cream recipe stacks up against any vanilla we have had, such as Haagen Dazs or any other, for creaminess and taste. We also noted that the noncooked ice cream freezes quite hard when put in the freezer, whereas the cooked mixtures don't get any harder than ice cream from the store. So from our experience, if you really want to beat store bought ice cream in every way, look for cooked custard or other recipes. The cooked recipes do require more time to make, cooling time before freezing, and we end up leaving the mixture churning longer--35 minutes or so, vs. 25 minutes for the instant recipes--but the end results are worth it.We love our Cuisinart Ice Cream Maker. Hope this review will help someone else as well.


