1348790400
4.0
review/summary: WW3 Fallout shelter; arrows and dentsreview/text: I haven't yet tried canning in this thing yet, but if World War Three ever breaks out, we can all climb into these pots and be safe!It is sturdy! And heavy! And says on the box not to use it with glass cooktops...so I ended up buying a camp stove for it. (Which ultimately turned out to be a plus for home brewing as well.)I can't honestly foresee any problems when canning with this monstrosity. But if there are any observations to be made, I'll add them here.Oh, and the weight regulator is ever so dinky and cute.Update (couple of weeks later).I finally got to use this for canning (chile con carne). It worked well, and responded to changes in temperature required to keep the weight regulator jiggling about 4 times per minute. I docked it a star because of one small issue that is probably only ever going to affect first-time users:The instruction booklet is clear to point out that the inside bevelled edge needs lubricating before use. One page recommends olive oil (with vaseline a second choice); the next page recommends only vaseline. Inconsistent, but not worth docking a star. The reason I am docking a star is because the lid actually has to be placed at a certain location on the base. There's an arrow on the lid (small) that needs to line up with an indentation on the base. I had to stop processing after seeing lots of steam and vapor coming out of the canner because I hadn't lined up the arrow with the dent. Once I'd done that I was able to restart processing and vapor only came out from the jiggling regulator.Considering the number of warning labels on this thing, the arrow/dent line-up should have been made clearer with a couple of obvious labels.Oh, and my chile? Of the 5 quart jars I processed, 3 sealed fine. One broke the seal when testing if it was OK, and the other didn't seal at all (lid slid off when ring was removed). So it looks like chile con carne for dinner for the next few days...


