1354752000
5.0
review/summary: Feels like I've come back home!review/text: I'm an avid coffee drinker. And after 15+ years of the highly-convenient drip Bunn (which I've sworn by specifically because it keeps a reservoir of water hot all the time so coffee's done in 3 minutes), I stumbled upon a thumbnail of the Presto Electric Percolator which I'd originally come to think of as old fashioned and outdated in convenience. But it's what I grew up with. LOTS of reviews. And almost all of them, stellar. The ones that got to me though were "full bodied" and especially "smell the coffee." And then there were mentions that it keeps the coffee perfectly hot and a long, long time before it starts to taste burnt.I ordered one, and it truly feels like I've come back home. The taste is a WORLD better. The smell of coffee fills the house. It's way more hassle than the Bunn (filter discussion follows) but it's just sooo worth it. And it takes a lot less counterspace. I am back in coffee lover's heaven.FILTERS: I never used them when I had a percolator before (isn't the basket the filter?) but I've read a number of reasons why they're a good idea, and I made a pot without, and a pot with. I liked with. Taste and also cleanup, and then the nagging thing about whatever it filters out which I don't recall, but google it if you have concerns.The square filters (sample pack comes in the box) with the pre-punched holes are ridiculously expensive. About 10 cents each which, in my case, would add up fast because I make 6-cup pots rather than 12's just because I like it freshly made. But it so happens that the floor of the commonly-available unbleached, round basket filters fit PERFECTLY into the floor of the 12-cup basket. And they go up the sides to right where this coffee pot's filter cover lands. I mean, a perfect fit. To cut the center hole, I take 5 or so filters at a time, and gently fold them in half, then in half again. That gives you dead center. (And if you fold carefully, you'll keep the convenient shape they come in.) Just snip off the teensiest corner--like about 1/16th of an inch because it will quadruple in size when unfolded. After a couple of times, you'll get the hang of curved snipping so it's a perfect fit over the basket's center post with no gaps. (Yes, this is a TAD of extra hassle, but we've all gotten an awfully low threshold for what we consider hassle.) These filters cost 01 cent vs. 10 cents each.The only claim Presto makes that I don't find true on mine is 1 minute per cup. Mine took 8 minutes for 2 cups and it takes 8 minutes for 6 cups. Pfffft. Not an issue when the quality of the coffee is this outstanding, but I'm just mentioning it in case that's a biggie for someone reading this.So while Bunn has been a WONDERFUL company, with their 3-year warranty (whereupon they will totally replace your coffee pot at no charge if anything wears out), and they're one of the few companies where you can readily talk to a human, and one who speaks English, I have no choice but to convert.Now an Off Topic addition, and I don't work for Amazon - no affiliation, but this suggests you consider buying one accessory because I LOVE mine. A long handled coffee scoop. I bought the Norpro (there are others) but this little sucker is just wonderful. 2 Tbsp. exactly (one scooper per 2 cups) and I can get 1 tbsp. by tilting my coffee jar (contents level) and pushing this in halfway. The edge comes out vertical, so it's pretty darned exact. But I keep my coffee in a 1-qt. mason jar and the long handle goes all the way to the bottom (or if you buy your coffee in bags, same thing). Solid stainless, really great feel with great heft and a hole at the end so you can hang it. (Makes a great ladle also). Just saying. So here 'tis. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000SSVGIY/ref=oh_details_o03_s01_i00. Note that packaging MAY say 1 Tbsp. but it's two, and says so on the back of the handle. Short handled coffee measure are a pain after using one of these.I give this Presto 12-cup percolator the highest of ratings. It makes great coffee and it keeps it at a perfect temperature. It has a small footprint, a substantial enough cord (though not as solid a connector as they used to be before China makes everything but that's replaceable if need be). It's just a really good, good cup of coffee. Me very happy camper.


