1351209600
4.0
review/summary: Good juicer for the moneyreview/text: Most of the reviewers are right on with their approval of this product. I struggled for quite a while between buying this model and a more expensive model.Glad I bought this one. Before I list the Pros and Cons, I would like to add my personal opinion that doesn't affect my review of this model, but more relates to the "juicing" culture. I am one of several that needs more fruits and veggies and this seemed like a must have for me to achieve that goal, since I rarely make time to cook and prepare food and am always on the go.I envisioned an easy way to consume the fruits and veggies I need and an attractive path to great health. The reality was quite disappointing- juicing yields such a small amount of juice per item that I couldn't help but cringe as I kept adding expensive fruits and veggies into my juicer and watched them shrink into delicious but tiny amounts of juice. Twenty dollars of berries, peaches, carrots, and celery from my local farmers market yielded me three-four 8 ounce glasses of juice. I know it does depend on the item, as certain foods yield more juice than others. And it's not the juicers fault, as the pulp it spits out is almost completely dry. Just my unrealistic expectation of juicing to blame.However, I still find this very useful for people like me who buy too many fruits and veggies that end up getting trashed because they never find time to prepare them-if it gets close to trashing, you can quickly and easily juice it and consume quickly on the go. Therefore, my new mantra about juicing- the best way to eat fruits and veggies is in their natural form, but if you're too lazy or let too much time pass, you can juice them to save their expensive health benefits.PROS:Easy to assemble and disassembleEasy to wash, as long as you rinse immediately or soon after use.Great price compared to other high rated juicers on the market.Great for people that frequently throw away fruits and veggies; now there is a quick and easy way to consume so you don't have to waste money.Reputable brand name.CONS:Can be a bit messy until you learn how to insert food items into juicer with pusher part; not sure if design could have helped to improve this.Can get quite loud, but seems better than others on the market according to reviewers.Can be expensive if this is your primary fruits and veggies intake on a daily basis, but this has more to do with juicing vs. consuming raw.Hope this helps!


