1356480000
5.0
review/summary: Ultimate Brewer in Single Brew Systemsreview/text: I did a lot of research before I plunked down over $100 for a coffee maker. I had an office with a kitchen on the other side of the building and no coffee shops in town. Read: Middle of nowhere. So, using an electric kettle and a french press, it was taking me 20 min to brew a cup of coffee and ended up throwing away half the pot because I don't drink that much coffee. I'm also not that adept at making coffee with the french press which is a personal failing of mine. It was wasteful and inefficient. Several of my office mates had their own Keurig and I tasted before I bought. It makes a decent cup of coffee.I spent some time comparing all of the different Keurig brewers. At the time of purchase (2010), Keurig was really the only maker on the scene and it was the one with the most pods on the market as compared to tassimo and others. I chose this specific model for the three sizes of cups you can make. I thought that I wouldn't use all three but in fact I do. I use the smallest one for quick espresso, the middle for smaller cups of tea and vitamin brews (EmergenC and Airborne) and the largest for coffee.I recommend this unit due to the multi-size function and its durability. Ive moved the unit several times long distance and it still works well. After this last move of over 1,300 miles, there is sometimes a delay in brewing a cup and it seems to think about it and then brew. Rarely, it doesn't brew at all and I need to shut off the unit and essentially reboot. Then it adjusts itself and its ready to go. But this is rare and I think it was due to the move.If you do intend to move your unit, I recommend hanging onto the original packaging and using that. Its a pain in the butt to put it back in the packaging but it is possible. Be sure that all the water is out of the unit and you might consider leaving it empty overnight if time allows.At the end of the day, the unit has paid for itself by preventing bad brews via french press and throwing out coffee. Its great for making soups, hot vitamin brews, teas, when you don't put a coffee pod in the basket. It works with the EcoBrew flawlessly. Its durable and has withstood repeating moving and daily use for over 2 years. Its perfect for home or small office settings. I highly recommend the Keurig B60 Special Edition.


