1355011200
5.0
review/summary: Excellent shots!review/text: I bought this after looking through a lot of the reviews here. After considering many of the negative reviews, it seemed like a lot of the problems were user error, and I bought it. I worked in a coffee house for years, so I feel pretty confident in my ability to grind properly, tamp properly, and pull a great shot. I am also a fiend when it comes to keeping my machines clean (this is a huge problem, and I suspect that some of the negative reviews can be linked back to a lack of proper cleaning).Anyway, I've had this machine for a few months, and I use it daily. If you really get the right grind and the right kind of espresso, there is NO reason why you shouldn't be able to pull gorgeous shots every single time. Also--when you tamp it right, there will always be a puck. If you have a watery mess, you didn't tamp hard enough and/or you didn't grind it fine enough.I clean it weekly with a mix of water, vinegar and LemiShine. You can buy tablets made specifically for espresso/coffee machines, but this does the same thing for cheap. I soak all the pieces in this mixture for an hour or so, and then I put some of the cleaning liquid into the water tank and run shots until it's empty. The I clean the tank, fill it with water, and run again until that's empty. So far, it has been running perfectly. If you are too lazy to do this kind of cleaning regiment on a weekly basis, be sure to do it at least once a month. If you're still too lazy, don't buy an espresso machine! They need to be taken care of frequently.I would definitely recommend this machine to anyone who loves a delicious espresso shot with a thick, sweet crema on it. Just be careful about your grind, your tamp, and the amount of espresso. Once you figure out the right combo, you'll be in heaven. My favorite drink right now: two shots made from Starbucks Christmas Espresso blend, about 1/2 cup cold milk, 1 tbsp vanilla syrup, and three ice cubes. So yummy.


