1344816000
5.0
review/summary: Very nicereview/text: UPDATE 12/23/12: I have been using this juicer since August. I primarily use oranges, apples, ginger, and carrots in it. I've noticed some things which might be helpful for new users.1. If you use carrots the plastic will discolor.2. There is a small, soft plastic ring on the juice spigot on the underside of the piece which catches the juice. This ring can be removed and cleaned but it can also fall off into the sink (and down my garbage disposal). Watch out for this.3. The spout area where the juice flows out is difficult to clean. Your finger can fit in it but you can't reach all areas of it. I recommend cleaning all the parts of the juicer soon after you make your juice because if you let the unit sit around with pulp in it this area is particularly hard to clean. A friend said there are mini bottle cleaners out there which could be helpful but I haven't found one yet.4. And yes, you must cover the feeder/tube or else you will have bits of fruit and veggie all over your cabinets and walls. I found that if I put apples in first, then citrus, it stops everything from spewing out (but not always).I just got this a few days ago. I have never juiced before and was hoping to enjoy it. The unit is larger than I thought it would be - I'll be the only person using the juicer and I guess I took the "compact" in the title too literally. I washed all the parts first - didn't put it in the dishwasher. I don't think I'm going to. My first juice was apples, beet, ginger, and carrot. I was amazed at the unit's power. I washed everything, but didn't peel the items. I went a little overboard and made too much juice but the final product was quite delicious (I added a bit too much ginger though). The pieces were easy to clean. The instructions state that citrus should be peeled, but otherwise, I just tossed everything in and inserted the carrots skinnier end up. I would like to create some juices that aren't as sweet so I'm going to investigate other recipes.


