1350259200
1.0
review/summary: I'd rather burn my money then buy another Keurig product!review/text: WARNING......WARNING.....WARNING.....WARNING.....I am on my 3rd, yes that's right, 3rd Keurig product in about 3 years. The first one I received slightly used from my mom, she raved about it and had gotten one for free so she gave me her old one. Great, I invested around $100 in different coffees and 6 months later it takes about 10 minutes to make a 1/4 cup of coffee; in the trash it goes and I head out to the store. Now, I am a casual coffee drinker at home and probably used the machine 4 to 5 times per week, not a large amount of uses.I went out and bought another one (B60) and ONLY USED BOTTLED WATER in it thinking this might make the second one last longer. I even spent $180 to get one of the higher end models. With this machine I discovered some good iced teas and used this machine probably 2x per day on average. After about a year on Keurig #2 it starts leaking more water onto the counter than it puts into the cup. I take it apart and see that it is leaking underneath where the water reservoir connects on the bottom. I make some adjustments and it stops leaking for a day and starts leaking again.I recently received my 3rd Keurig Classic machine for a birthday present. Less than 1 week of use maybe 3 times per day and it starts to short pour almost every cup. To get a full cup of coffee I now have to run a large cup button, open and close the top without taking out the k-cup and run the small cup button to get 8 oz of coffee or tea. And yes, I have read the FAQ page and no the reservoir was not removed during the brewing and the reservoir was completely full.The person that gave it to me doesn't have the receipt so I can't take it back.I am so ticked that a company can sell such crap and get away with it! At this rate it would be way cheaper to just go to Starbucks and buy a $5 cup of coffee every day and not put up with this junk.If all the machines are as bad as mine someone could be a millionaire refurbishing these units.Also, my parents have also gone through a couple of units in this same period.


