1344556800
5.0
review/summary: Bodum has been dethroned as best French press!review/text: I have owned several Bodum Chambord french presses over the years, and after breaking my 3rd or 4th glass carafe, I finally decided I'd had enough and went looking for all-metal options. At first I was going to go with Bodum's own stainless carafe models, but hesitated for two reasons: 1. They are quite expensive, and 2: They use plastic screens and/or silicone rubber gaskets in the plunger screen, which could affect durability and could also potentially hold on to old flavors. The seal around the plunger was also the main negative cited in reviews. When I came across this Thermos model, it appeared to have neither of these downsides so I went for it.After a few months of using the Thermos Nissan press, I can say that it is far superior to the Bodum presses. It is by far the best French Press I have ever used. Here's why I think it's superior:1. Absolutely every part the coffee comes in contact with while brewing is metal. The spout and top cover are plastic but the coffee only contacts them for brief periods while you are pouring.2. The metal screen itself is slightly finer than those that come with Bodum presses. This means that it takes considerably more effort to depress the plunger but on the upside there is far less sludge that gets through compared to the Bodum.3. If you're like me and have spare Bodum press parts hanging around because you broke the glass carafes, the plunger assembly will fit this pot! So if you find that the finer mesh makes depressing the plunger too difficult for you, just pop your old Bodum screen in. The inside diameter of the Thermos appears to be almost the same as the Bodum carafes.4. One of the negatives I have read about the Bodum all-metal pots is that if you decide to use a metal filter screen in them, it can scratch the pot walls. This is why they use the inferior plastic/silicone screens for them. I can tell you that after many uses, the Thermos shows no negative effects of metal-on-metal contact. The inside of the pot looks like new.5. The metal carafe keeps the coffee warm longer than glass does (duh). I'd say you can get up to about a half hour at drinkable temperature, but for longer you're going to need a "real" thermos.6. Better value than Bodum - you are getting a much more durable product at a lower price.A couple minor negative points:1. As I said above, I find I have to press down MUCH harder on this press than I did with the Bodum. I suspect this is due to the resistance of the finer mesh screen as well as increased friction of metal-metal vs. metal-glass in the Bodum. This doesn't really bother me, but just know that you will have to take your time while pressing.2. Some parts are still plastic - the handle, plunger lid, and top and bottom assembly (top assembly including the spout). The plastic appears to be of good quality, but I don't know if would survive a direct drop on a kitchen floor without cracking. The steel carafe itself seems like it should last forever.3. I suppose it doesn't look as nice as a Bodum press. I personally could care less what it looks like as long as it works and is well made, but if that type of thing matters to you...Finally, another related product endorsement:It took me a long time to find a grinder that would give a consistent coarse grind but doesn't cost a fortune. It is the Hario Skerton. It's somewhat fiddly and takes some practice to adjust where you want it, but it's a ceramic burr grinder that is dishwasher safe and puts out fantastic grind quality. The dishwasher is more of a bonus than you might think - whenever I finish one coffee and start another, I disassemble the grinder and put it through the dishwasher to remove all traces of the old coffee's flavor. Espresso lovers should note that the Hario is NOT recommended for very fine grinds (espresso, turkish). It is also human-powered, so you will have to work for your grind.http://www.amazon.com/Hario-Coffee-Hand-Grinder-Skerton/dp/B001802PIQ/ref=sr_1_2?s=home-garden&ie;=UTF8&qid;=1344631275&sr;=1-2&keywords;=hario+grinder


