1350691200
4.0
review/summary: So relevant to our society now...review/text: How did I not read this book years ago? I only just recently discovered 'The Giver' and the biggest surprise for me was that it was written so long ago (1993). After reading a synopsis and a few reviews I figured it was a much more recent book.The political theme these days seems to me to be one of making sure everyone gets their 'fair share', of redistributing the wealth, of making sure that life treats everyone equally. This is pure hogwash. Life isn't fair. Crap happens. And no amount of federal money or social engineering will accomplish what our government seems hell-bent on trying to buy for the population.That's why I was so surprised to find this book written in the 90s. It's amazing to me Lois Lowry wrote about a utopian society so many years ago that certain members of our government now would be thrilled to make a reality - the non-scifi aspects at least.In 'The Giver' everyone's choices are made for them so that no one makes a wrong choice. There's no chance for the members of the community to choose the wrong vocation or spouse (they are assigned jobs and spouses). No one has more or less than another. No one goes hungry. No one feels pain. All the discomforts of normal life are regulated away. And should someone choose to disobey the rules they are severely punished until they fall into line or they are 'released' (a euphemism for the death penalty). Memories of the collective past are held by a single individual so that no one is burdened by the unpleasantness of past horrors or mistakes.It all sounds lovely on the surface, but the reality is much different. Without the ability to make choices, learn from mistakes, and grow in understanding these people become automatons who commit atrocities without knowing what they are truly doing.Not sure I would say I enjoyed this book, since the subject matter is so heavy, but it did give me pause for thought and cement some feelings I've had about the way I see our country heading. The more effort we make in trying to protect others from poor choices (or simple bad luck) the closer we get to the society portrayed where we will no longer have choice.And we will have done it to ourselves. We will have given up our ability to choose for the comfort of safety and equality.


