1347062400
3.0
review/summary: Noisy energy hog; better choices availablereview/text: If I had been permitted to give ratings with fractional stars I'd probably rate this as a 2.5 star product. I've owned one of these for 4 years but have felt the need to buy other products to provide most of my air purification needs; I now only use it in a back room on the low setting where high noise is less bothersome. This is more an air vacuum than an air purifier in that it is very loud, even on the lowest setting. If you are at all sensitive to noise you will not be able to sleep with one of these in the same room and even during the daytime the noise is very distracting. I measured (using a kill-a-watt meter) the energy usage as ~70 W, 105 W, and 162 W on low, medium, and high settings, respectively, making this a real energy hog. I purchased a 50250-N, which claimed a lifetime HEPA filter, but the company has since relabeled the product as a 50250-S and now markets the HEPA filter as long life--although the actual filter seems to be unchanged. Even if one chooses to never upgrade the HEPA filter, the carbon pre-filters are supposed to be changed every 3 months and cost about $15 each, although one can get third-party versions for less, so filter costs are still significant. The HEPA filter is of decent quality but independent tests suggest the filter only catches 80-85% of particles in the first past due to air leaking around the filter; a good filter should score well above 95% and lots of products do. This seems to be a strategic decision on the part of Honeywell because if a filter gets clogged (perhaps because someone took a lifetime claim literally or didn't do any cleaning) the motor would burn out if the filter had a tighter seal and the company would get lots of warranty claims. The carbon pre-filters are OK for light control of odors and VOCs but will not suffice for heavy-duty air purification. On the plus side, the unit is easy to move around because it has an excellent handle and the cord length is reasonable. If you are very price sensitive, get cheap electricity, don't need heavy-duty odor control, and are not concerned about noise, you might find this will meet your needs as it does move a decent amount of air. However, one can get a much better product with more features (air quality sensors, filter quality sensors, automation, etc.) that will not damage your hearing and that is only slightly more expensive. I think most people would be better served by purchasing another product.


