1359158400
2.0
review/summary: Not Worth The Moneyreview/text: I've been drinking coffee for over 30 years, and understand the importance of investing in a good quality coffeemaker, something I have no quorums with. I heard and read good and bad reviews about the Keurig coffeemakers. The reviews were so mixed I decided to try one for myself. I ordered Keurig's B70 on December 28, 2012. I made my first cup of coffee on January 8, 2013. It is quick, convenient, and looks great! Not what's most important though...Water temperature is one integral part in a great cup of coffee. The water temperature has never hot enough. I keep it on the highest setting of 192 but immediately after brewing a cup of coffee, I can stick my finger in the cup. I've run the "Rinse" cycle, turned the machine off, unplugged it for a while, emptied and refilled the water reservoir, and started it back up. Still... my coffee is lukewarm at best. I've resorted to microwaving my coffee immediately after brewing it. I hate microwaving coffee! The construction of the product is also a bit flimsy.I've sampled three or four of the K-Cups provided with the brewer, used the rinse feature, and also thoroughly cleaned the maker before using my preferred coffee of choice. Both the taste of the samples provided with the B70, and my coffee of choice tastes weak and mediocre. I've adjusted the cup size but the flavor is still the same.Taste and quality are far more important to me than convenience. My coffeehouse of choice has always used Bunn coffeemakers and told me they were best for making coffee. I've done my homework and the positive reviews far outweigh the negative. I ordered the Bunn MCU. It comes standard with four drawers for K-Cups, ground coffee, pods and water. It features pulse brew to extend water contact time, and allows users to choose drinking between 4 to 14 ounces (4 to 12 on B70). It offers a 2-year warranty versus a 1-year warranty with Keurig. It can also be used to grind up to 20 grams ground coffee (10 grams on B70) to get high quality results. The speed of both units is less than a minute.As with many things in life, there are some give and takes - features I wish it had such as the water reservoir; however, the upside to that is that it has a stainless tank versus plastic (B70), which keeps the water hotter. They both could stand to improve their designs to allow for a bit larger cups (i.e. travel mug size).I must say, with a price tag of $189.99, I am terribly disappointed. I will be boxing the unit up and returning it to Keurig for a refund.


