1358467200
3.0
review/summary: Not perfect - it works, but....review/text: So let me start off with the good: I bought this in July 2011, and here it is January 2013 and this little Hot Shot is going strong, nothing on it has broken. I use it every day to make tea. Twice I took it with me on vacation to make hot cocoa and ramen noodle cups when I needed a snack (there's wasn't a microwave in our hotel room), and it's great for that too. I always drain it out completely after each use and open the lid so it airs out.The bad? It's a bit fussy. No matter how much water I put in, it heats it for the same amount of time. If I want to boil 1/2 cup or 1 cup of water, the Hot Shot will bring it to boiling... and then keep boiling and boiling until I'm worried it's going to boil itself dry. I have to unplug it in these instances. There's no way to turn it off other than unplugging it and when you go to plug it in next time, it'll automatically start heating up where it left off. This is why there's a sticker on the Hot Shot telling you to fill it with water before you plug it in. If it's heating with no water inside of it, it'll damage the Hot Shot.The Hot Shot says it will boil 16oz of water, but if I try to boil 14-16oz of water then it will boil over... the lid will jump up and boiling water will spray around. I won't even be able to touch the dispenser without getting boiling water on my hand. Dangerous. (I can't let visiting guests use this Hot Shot on their own, at least not without a short lesson.) Really, I can only use this Hot Shot with 12 oz water, that keeps it from boiling over.I can't use this Hot Shot to make 2 cups of tea, one right after the other. When I press the start button to make the 2nd cup, it either won't start at all, or it will but it won't heat the water for nearly long enough. It has to cool down after the first use, and only then can it be used to boil more water. It's okay if you're just making tea for yourself, but not so great if a couple of your friends come over and accept your offer to make them tea.By the way, I use 14oz Corelle Hearthstone mugs and they're *just* a touch too tall for the Hot Shot. I get it to fit by tilting the mug in under the Hot Shot's dispenser then tilting it carefully back out once I've dispensed the hot water. It seems when they made the Hot Shot, they made it to fit 10-12 oz mugs, so that's something to keep in mind.So, I'll keep using this Hot Shot until the day it dies (and when that happens I'll be sure to update this review). But I won't be replacing it with another Hot Shot.


