1354665600
2.0
review/summary: Beware of this coffeemaker!review/text: I bought this coffeemaker about six months ago (after reading many reviews on Amazon). We bought it because we were tired of replacing the glass carafe which inevitably breaks on the Cusinart's within a year or so-and costs $20 to replace. So we went with the chrome carafe. We thought: "never a problem with a broken carafe again!" WRONG. There is piece of black plastic (that's part of the handle)at the top of the carafe. After 6 months it broke off (see review from 11/26/12-same problem). We need a new carafe and figure it's covered under Cusinart's 3 yr limited warantee. It is...but...you have to pay shipping to send the broken carafe in before Cusinart will send you out another one. So the new carafe costs about $43 minus my $20 I had to pay UPS shipping to send it in and guess what? I AM ESSENTIALLY STILL PAYING $23 FOR A NEW CARAFE!Don't get me wrong. I am not a complainer or a whiner. And no, I did not drop the carafe or otherwise damage it myself-it broke spontaneously. I gave it 2 stars because this coffeemaker makes simply great coffee! However it is NOT well-made and that will became evident to you after 6 months to 1 yr. It will probably totally die at just before the warantee is about to expire (3 yrs) mark. So consider it a 1 yr to 3 yr coffemaker. Anything major that goes wrong YOU will have to pay to ship it to Cusinart-THEY SHOULD PAY SHIPPING if their parts are defective during the warranty period-it's that simple. I had a supervisor on the phone and he would not budge on this issue.I thought Cusinart made very high quality products. I don't consider my situation a fluke or my particular product a 'lemon'. It's just a typical Cusinart coffeemaker in my view. Great coffee-poor quality unit and parts. I am disillusioned and will never buy another Cusinart again. Poor quality control and they really don't stand behind their products. It should not be the customer's obligation to pay for shipping a defective part or entire unit-Cusinart should be sending you out a paid return label. I am writing the CEO about this I feel so strongly. If you read the reviews carefully you will hear others say some of the same things.


