1348272000
2.0
review/summary: Honeywell 6009 QuietCare????review/text: Updated.I finally found out the simple solution for the annoying vibration noise that caused by the three pieces and the base that Honeywell 6009 "introduced".I just don't understand why Honeywell did not think about this simple feature, which would reduce the unwanted vibration noise to almost zero level for this 6009 device in the first place. This simple solution could have made their product more valuable & to stand proudly for what the "QuietCare" logo they have on their product.After I fixed this vibration issue by my own idea, the device seems OK for other features that they have, so I decided to add another star to make it two instead of one originally.Subtract 1 star for costly maintenance (Very expensive $14 filter that user have to put on almost every month)Subtract 1 star for often cleaning requirement in order to produce the fresh humidity in air as it suppose to (Need to clean up base and filter almost every time to refill water tank, and this is daily activity) Unless you don't care for air quality that your children (your future) breath.Subtract 1 star for poor design in the vibration noise level of their flaw design to make the device more noisy than it should be.If anyone got the same noise problem and need the solution to reduce the noise level, let me know. I will be more than happy to share with you.------------------Original review:I found this one has very high rating, so i ignored all the negative comments as usual and I just had it shipped to me yesterday (9/21/2012) by Amazon with a brutally damage on the box as it showed the HUGE hole on the box (pictures included in the packaging feedback)Unfortunately, sad so true about its noise. It's extreme noisy even when it operate in a low speed fan. The reason was it compiles of three pieces, one main motor fan, the big piece, and the other two are water tanks, and when it operates, dose not matter what speed it is, the vibration of the fans causes the collision between the three pieces to make a extreme loud noise, like a cheering sound from a party. I just don't under stand how it could passed the QA, or it could be the Honeywell QA has very LOW standard for their products, low quality expectation. It could be because they know they couldn't make any better, or this design is purposely for the hearing loss people (I don't means rude OK!) who definitely has no trouble with any kind of noise longer, but they did not clearly stated it in their advertisement warning.I am a very easy to sleep person, I can crash down anywhere, anytime to sleep instantly in few seconds after lay down, even in a vey noisy surrounding environment like TV, kids noise running around my house ... etc, but I cant's stand with THE annoying vibration sound, the particular clashing sound that made by this poor design product. I am thinking of putting it on the craigslist right after one night use, but I feel kindda guilty in some degree for whoever might buy this piece of junk. I might have to donate it to the senior center where people might has no trouble with the sound anymore. The most ridiculous thing I found about this device was they has a logo says QuietCare but it totally means opposite what the logo says. Is it some kind of fool joke or what what???Just about the noise it makes alone I would not recommend anyone to try this trouble maker. I don't even yet discuss about how much trouble of cleaning, filling the water tank, and its maintenance issue and such. Because I saw many honest posts already discussed about other issues, so I don't want to repeat again.Save yourself from the ridiculous trouble you shouldn't have in the first place by ignore this product and go on search for some other model or brand. Good luck to your search and mine as well.


