1356566400
3.0
review/summary: Good starter set or cookware for the cottage but not for the serious home cookreview/text: I just visited several stores to check out various lines of cookware (after conducting extensive online research) and wanted to share my impressions of this line with you. The main thing I noticed is that it is lighter than I expected and after checking out other brands, they felt more like a value line for a college student looking for his first set, the cottage or someone who doesn't cook often. I found the multi-clad lids extremely light and thin and also the handles weren't as comfortable as I had hoped.In fairness, I had checked out the to-die-for Demeyere Atlantis line and All-Clad (mid-level) before I demo'ed these pots in the store. It's like comparing a BMW to a Hyundai and expecting the same results. I also checked out Le Creuset stainless steel (http://www.amazon.com/Le-Creuset-Tri-Ply-Stainless-cookware/dp/B001CMPQ04/ref=cm_cr_pr_product_top) , which, if they weren't made in China and charged European prices, would probably be my #1 pick. I'm telling you, the photo on Amazon does NOT do this cookware justice. Up close, it's gorgeous. The weight (not too light not too heavy), the handles, the contemporary design, the brushed steel, rolled edges for easy pouring, and measurement markings on the inside...all met my criteria. This is a beautiful set. The woman in the store said that Le Creuset has its own factory in China (like that makes a difference??). I guess she feels the manufacturing is closely monitored and done well.Cooks Illustrated gave this multiclad line a high rating so this is a good-enough endorsement for me. But if you LOVE to cook and cook often, I think there is stainless steel cookware that is superior to this. Sometimes you do get what you pay for. Check out the Cuisinart Made In France line called Cusinart French Classic on Amazon for a notch up.P.S. There is an impressive Tramontina line of cookware made in Brazil that I came across while renting a vacation home - this set was superior to the Cuisinart Multi-Clad line but is not easy to track down anymore. The owner of these pots originally bought them 2 years ago at Costco. My girlfriend accidentally burned some food in a large pot and we were amazed at how well in cleaned up.


