1353110400
2.0
review/summary: Don't believe the 4 star reviews, they are probably phonyreview/text: I bought the Hamilton Beach kettle about 2 weeks ago. I never take all the reviews too seriously, but look at repeated remarks about pros & cons. I bought this kettle mainly for the fact that it is all stainless inside if you don't use the plastic filter. I don't understand why kettle manufacturers don't react to consumer concerns regarding BPA. There is plastic in virtually every electric kettle. After using the kettle for 2 weeks, I can guarantee you that there is no way this product rates 4 stars.1. the spout is a big design flaw. The spout is basically an indentation in the stainless steel body. It is not a true spout. That means you have to pour more slowly & carefully than with a kettle with a true spout. NOTE: I do not use the plastic filter, which makes it even worse.2. If you take the kettle off the base when it starts boiling but has NOT YET yet clicked off, it will NOT automatically turn off. When you return the kettle to the base, the green light is on and it will keep boiling - this is the 3rd electric kettle I have owned over the past 6 years - all the others automatically turn off when you pick it up. The Hamilton Beach makes it much easier to ruin by boiling an empty kettle.3. The "fill to" mark is impossible to see - basically just fill it to the bottom of the lid when the lid is open. FYI - I looked all over the web to find out what the lid was like before purchasing and could not find any pictures. The unit does not have a traditional lid that is a separate unit that lifts completely off. This lid is attaches to the unit and flips open when you hit a button. I'm sure this will wear out first.4. No way it holds as much water as it claims - other reviewers have commented on this.5. The round label leaves a mark on the kettle - another reviewer commented on this. The round mark is faint, but annoying. How hard can it be Hamilton Beach!I am keeping the kettle because it is all stainless - I hope it lasts 6 - 12 months and by that time someone will come out with an all stainless electric kettle.


