1354752000
3.0
review/summary: Decent machine for the price if you don't need it every dayreview/text: For the most part, this is a good machine for the price. It produces a gorgeous and delicious crema, which was high on my priority list. What I didn't like about the machine is that it is excessively noisy, a bit awkward and clumsy and the whole unit vibrates to the point that you have to watch that your cup does not move from directly beneath the espresso port, speaking of which, sits too low to be able to put a standard size cup or caf&eacute; receptacle (with a wider opening than an espresso cup) beneath it. The milk frother also sits too low to be able to froth a coffee mug of milk directly. I had to use a wide mouth frothing pitcher tilted sideways and the wand still didn't reach to the milk as far as I wanted. I also had to go back and make a second espresso after using the "two shot" screen, as the two shots were really only equal to one for me and my cappo was weak, although I use a good, imported Italian coffee (Lavazza).I will comment that my personal preference and standards for espresso and cappos are high because I drink them daily after living in Italy for three years. I have since been using an inexpensive Krups steam driven machine which we bought back in the 1990s (which says a lot for that machine as long as you get one with a separate setting for steam and coffee and you know how to manipulate the machine beyond the standard instructions). We have used it off and on throughout the years as we have spent much time living overseas, so it was put up during that time and we had to use a local machine for local electricity. However, as much as we have used the heck out the Krups, my husband and I have long wanted to upgrade to a pump driven machine. The DeLonghi is a good machine for the price if you are basically a weekend or occasional espresso/cappuccino drinker, or want to be the barista for friends while entertaining. I think if I got used to the machine on my daily basis it might be ok, but I prefer to eliminate the design and functional issues by finding a better machine.


