1353542400
5.0
review/summary: First use, so far so good!!review/text: I purchased this machine last week and got to wash 4 carpets yesterday. The first carpet was my master bedroom. I don't think it had ever been washed in the 19 years. It had all kinds of deep stains and dried paint from people painting. I didn't measure the detergent correctly the first time around. It did clean the carpet very well. The 2nd time I cleaned I used the full amount of detergent and most of the heavy spots of paint and stains did come out. I was actually shocked they did. One full water tank did the entire large master bedroom. I think had the previous owners of the home had cleaned the carpet every 6 months or so it would look new but based on age and it's first washing in it's life it looks pretty good.Based on information from other reviewers I used hot water. My home water gets VERY hot so I didn't feel the need to boil it but I did anyway. I then cleaned the two smaller bedrooms. Same result. Very nice with lots of dirty water left in the recovery tank. Lots of debrit left on the straining sock in the recovery tank.The last carpet I cleaned was a area rug that is only about a year old. My daughter likes to use crayons and draw on her books on this rug. Needless to say it had lots of stains. I was able to clean this rug with one tank of water. I went over it a few times and it looks brand new. I was very happy with the results.My impressions on the machine. The manual is kind of vague on how to use it. You need to push the water tank into it until the handle clicks. Takes a bit of muscle. Make sure the gaskets where the tank mates to the machine are not distorted. My machine didn't leak but after the cleaning was complete there was some residual water. I recommend placing a towel under the brush for an hour to allow it to dry. To use, you push it forward holding the trigger. If you have deep stains you can push the top button for extra solution to be placed on the stain. Go slow, allow the brush to work. Then pull back slow to pull all the water out of the carpet. That seemed to do the trick. Because this was my first time using it on these old carpets I went extra slow allowing the brush and the suction to do their thing. Let the machine do the work.I'm looking forward to trying it on my linoleum floor in my kitchen.


