1358294400
5.0
review/summary: It's the little things in life that make ALL the difference...review/text: I had a very nice Christmas (thanks for asking!), and I got lots of nice gifts. But the best gift of all that I received was the smallest item of them all. Mr Coffee Mug Warmer, take a bow...Truly, this mug warmer* really has changed the quality of my life significantly over the last few weeks. Now, you might read that statement and think, 'wow, your life must really suck for it to be possible for a mug warmer to make it better'.But no, my life doesn't suck. I just really, really like hot tea. You see, I work at home. And I don't have any work colleagues to shoot the s*** with - so, to keep me on my toes, I use caffeine. Lots and lots of caffeine. But, much as I like caffeine (delivered through the medium of tea and, of course, it's more sultry sister, coffee), I get very sad when it goes cold. Indeed, taking a swig of cold tea or coffee is about as pleasant an experience as, say, getting smacked in the face with a wet pair of underpants (we've all been there, right?)Anyway, so I got this mug warmer and I switched it on and, lo and behold, there are no more such unpleasant moments in my life anymore (until someone turns up with a pair of wet underpants anyway). One of the small but incredibly irritating daily occurrences that I had come to think was inescapable has now been resolved! (Yes, things can actually get better!) So now, when I am distracted by a Skype call or any other task and so have to abandon my tea for 20 or 30 minutes, I can now confidently return to it knowing that it will still be piping hot (or very warm at least) and utterly satisfying.In other words, this mug warmer product delivers the goods and then some. The tyranny of cold tea has been defeated. And the misery of having to trudge downstairs to heat it back up in the microwave is no more. (Heck, at this rate I might never need to move from my office chair again - progress, eh?)But seriously, if you want a cheap mug warmer that keeps your drink at approximately the same temperature as you prepared it at, then this warmer will do the job nicely. I leave it on all day (yes, us home workers are total rebels, didn't you know?) and it has paid for itself many, many times over by now.*One thing that I have to say is that, while brilliant, this product is NOT a 'warmer' - i.e. it does not *warm* your drink up at all. Rather, it *maintains* your drink at approximately the same temperature as you prepared it at and for a good length of time. For example, if I prepare a cup of tea (which I am about to go an do, by the way), and put it on the warmer, it'll keep it at the same temperature - with only a very slight loss of heat - for up to an hour and beyond. As a voracious tea drinker, I've never actually let a mug linger long enough to see if there is indeed a point at which it will lose all heat. So surely that's a good sign, no?Bottom line: how can you call yourself a serious fan of hot drinks and not own this product? Shame on you! SHAME!Update (2 weeks later): bonus feature detected! If you are like me in that you tend to spill drinks and in the process your mug tends to drip with coffee a lot, you are going to love this... This mini hot plate warmer will sizzle all drippage away instantly once you place your mug down on it, meaning that you can also avoid any future coffee stains on your table. Then all you need do is wipe the warmer clean once it is turned off / cooled down (unless of course you're like me and you don't care). Score!


