1346976000
5.0
review/summary: I'm not a professional, but...review/text: It starts like this: my parents grind coffee every single morning. I watched them do it all throughout high school. I didn't really understand what the difference was, nor did I really care all that much about it. Then I got to college and bought cheap, pre-ground coffee from the store. Then I understood. I haven't gotten around to buying this, and my own coffee beans until this year, but I will say that this is perfect and allows me to grind and brew much better coffee than offered in the pre-ground section at the store.Note: I've had this grinder for about two weeks now. First grinder I've owned. I've only used one other grinder (my parents, which is pretty old). In other words, this is a simple review, with no professional coffee maker/brewer base to it. I'm in college, to say the least. Just trying to be a little sophisticated, or something like that.As far as the construction of this grinder, it's perfect. Yeah, it says you can grind other things inside of it, but I don't bake or anything so I have no need for it, other than grinding almonds for my oatmeal in the morning, which turned out to be one of my best decisions next to buying the grinder itself. It's a solid machine. Doesn't make too much noise for my five suite mates or apartment roomies or whatever you want to call them. They also use it for their own coffee as well. It holds the perfect amount of beans, and grinds them very well and efficiently.Functionality- its perfect, for me at least. I just want to grind coffee so it can taste better. That's it. I'm not into the whole "fine grind, coarse grind" thing. I don't particularly care if the coffee beans are ground to a dust. It still goes into the coffee machine, in the filter, and I don't find chunks in my coffee. Sometimes it misses a bean or something, but there were like thirty other beans in there that got ground up so I'm not really missing much in my mind.Lastly- cleaning the thing. Cleaning is not a fun thing. I don't do it frequently, partially because it's not needed and partially because it's somewhat of a pain, as it would be with any grinder. The coffee sticks to the bottom of it sometimes, meaning I gotta get in there and rotate the blade to get to it all without cutting myself. This is not specific to this grinder, but just is a general statement about cleaning grinders in general. Not a big deal though; it's well worth it in my mind. The clear plastic piece is easy to clean, though. No issues with that at all. A little hot water and it's all good to go.Again, I'm no coffee connoisseur, but this does what I need it to do, and I get better tasting coffee because of it. I'll update this review if something goes astray. Hope this helps somebody!


