1354320000
5.0
review/summary: Even Better Than I'd Hoped Forreview/text: When my Dear One gave me a long wished for Gaggia Classic espresso maker I knew that a good grinder would have to be next. The Gaggia, like many of the better home espresso makers today, allows for the use of pods and has a pressurized portafilter that theoretically makes having a perfect grind less necessary. But if "pretty good" is not good enough one needs to dispense with the easy fixes and do things with measured care. And that means grinding the beans fresh at just the correct granularity and tamping them perfectly.Some have suggested that no moderately priced grinder can do that, and I in the past having owned several by Krups and other companies would have had to agree. But the Capresso Infinity changes that.Its conical burrs and geared down motor are pro grade. This sets the Infinity apart. But would the unit 1) allow for adequate control of grind fineness and 2) consistency to control the pour? Some, while praising the Infinity for most coffee brewing styles have said that it was not quite up to the task for espresso. I found it otherwise.For one, although the Infinity has only sixteen indicated grind settings, the detents are very soft. That meant i could easily set it between those preset points. With my present beans (Starbucks 2012 Christmas Blend espresso roast) a setting of very fine 2.5 makes for a perfect length "mousetail" pour.Although it is Winter dry in my home (humidity 54%) I had absolutely no static problems. And the Infinity proved very easy to clean. -just a quick removal of the upper burr and a few whisks with the provided brush. And this with very dark and oily beans..As to method, I simply fill my Gaggia's portafilter with beans, pour these in the hopper, set the timer to 5 and let her run. That gets all the beans ground and the grinder shuts off about a second or two later. Put the grounds into the preheated portafilter, even and tamp, then insert, brew and savor.Simply put I could not be more pleased.Five stars!An addendum one week later... Working with my Capresso Infinity on a daily basis I am more pleased then ever. The grind setting - since adjusted to a slightly finer 2.4. - holds perfectly. I now keep a few ounces of beans in the hopper and grind just enough for a session of one or multiple double shots. The pour is perfect. And as a sign of the Infinity's consistancy there is NO residue on the bottom of the cup.Technique is thus easy. Two scoops of ground beans into the Gaggia's non-pressurized portafilter. Smooth out the surface. Use a coin settling movement with the damper (a good, metal, true 58mm one!), then a 30 lb flat tamp. Insert and pull for 28 seconds. A lovely double with a thick light brown even crema. Yes!!! :)


