1344988800
3.0
review/summary: Great gadget but the saddest nonstick pan on the planetreview/text: I have owned this Pizzazz for about 6 years I think. Goes back to before I started using Amazon, and I can't even remember where I bought it but it had to be brick & mortar.I LOVED this thing. For frozen pizza, fantastic. But I have my own pizza recipe with my own homemade dough and that proved to be the downfall of pan #1. I think I made two frozen pizza and on the next pizza night, my own homemade. It was a long time ago, I think I smeared some olive oil on it with a paper towel (NO PAM, NEVER use PAM on any nonstick, I know that). The pizza crust ultimately was fuzed to the pan. It was very sad. I scraped it off with a plastic spatula and soaked it for hours. I didn't even have a dishwasher in that apartment so I certainly couldn't have abused it. It turned dark brown more places than not, almost like a shellac or varnish and I took pictures of it and wrote customer service at Presto. The lady was very nice and sent me a new pan.Well, tossed a frozen pizza on that baby, it came off reasonably OK. Popped into the sink, and I never saw so much non stick coating float away in my life. It looked like a mosaic. I had not even taken a sponge to it.So, for years my Pizzazz sadly sat in a cupboard. On occasion when it was too hot to fire up my real oven, I would cover the pans with foil and make my own or a frozen pizza. It was always fine. Really like the oven. Hate the pan.I got the sadz for making pizza in summer and ordered a replacement pan from a vendor. Again, very careful. This one has survived two frozen pizzas and I am tempted to embark on the homemade variety. I am going to try and get pics uploaded of my two original pans and the new one. See how the new one fares. Again, I never use nonstick spray on nonstick pans. That is the kiss of death. And I don't every use this for anything besides pizza. I see in my Target store an "Ultra" pizza model and wonder what is ultra. The old one was fine. The pans are not worth the aluminum they are coating with whatever.


