1353888000
5.0
review/summary: Great juicer at a reasonable price.review/text: I've had my Breville for about 2 months now. On average I use it about 2-3 times a week. I love being able to have fresh juice at a moments notice.In the interest of being thorough I'll simply list the pros and cons.Pros:- It's fairly quiet. I expected it to be much louder than it is.- It's efficient. 95% of what I juice ends up with very fine dry pulp left in the collection bin.- Pretty easy to clean. Cleanup takes just a few moments as long as you don't let it sit and have the pulp harden in the screen. The included brush makes scraping pulp out and scrubbing the mesh screen a breeze.- It's well built. The unit feels substantial. I don't feel like I paid $100 for some flimsy piece of junk. The plastic is hard and durable, it fits together nicely and there's no leaking.- Very easy to assemble. It snaps together easily and securely in less than a minute. There's no way you can assemble it wrong and not know it.- This thing is powerful. Make sure you cover the feed tube opening otherwise you'll have a lot of cleanup after using it. It's so powerful it will float the pusher out the feed tube if you leave it in without produce in there.- An easy pull plug. After using it, I think all electrical devices should have a ring built into the plug for easy removal from sockets. I don't know why it took so long to come up with this feature, but it's brilliant!- An extra wide feed tube. I can easily fit whole kiwi's in, smaller apples, big carrots, an entire handful of berries, whole oranges. For large apples I usually just quarter or halve them and toss them in. I've yet to have anything that won't fit.- It needs minimal prep. Seeds and stems are no problem. My favorite concoction is apple, pear and strawberry with a little bit of spinach. I remove stickers, wash everything, quarter the apples and pears and in it all goes. Strawberries go in with the green cap on and spinach goes in stems and all. The stringy core of the pears aren't a problem. I try to remove any large woody stems, but average sized apple stems and seeds don't phase it.- The anti-foam collection cup is great. Personally I don't mind the foam, I usually stir it back into my juice before drinking anyway, but for those who are squeamish about it, the lid removes the bulk of the foam when pouring.Cons:- The switch is on the wrong side (at least for me). Being a righty I tend to setup so I can feed it and remove the collection cup with my right hand and keep my left hand over the feed tube to prevent splatter. Because of this the button ends up on what would be the back of the unit from my perspective. It often takes a lot of groping to turn the unit on and off.- It may be slightly overpowered. Sometimes there seems to be excessive amounts of foam/froth. It can be annoying to wait for it to settle. Also, juicing spinach can be a trick. If you have the unit on before you put the leaves in, it will often blow them back out if you're not paying attention.- Softer fruits seem to require more cleaning. The collection bin holds quite a bit of pulp, but if you're juicing softer fruits like pears, you'll find yourself cleaning out the mesh a lot. Bartlett pears in particular clog up the mesh something terrible. Not sure if buying them slightly under ripe would help this or not. Apples don't seem to have the same problem for me. But then again I tend to prefer red delicious apples with a nice crunch to them.All in all I think this is a great juicer. I bought this as my first juicer, there may be better 'entry level' juicers out there, but this one (according to my research before purchase and my experience post purchase) is a great mix of cost, performance and simplicity. When the time comes to purchase another juicer Breville will be the company I look at first.


