1347235200
4.0
review/summary: Great for the price ... for a latte guy.review/text: Here's what I gather to be the essentials (all purchased on Amazon after piecing together some reviews, Subscribe n'Save where applicable):De'Longhi EC155 15 BAR Pump Espresso and Cappuccino MakerEspresso Tamper 50 & 60 Mm Sizes Cast Alloy Hand CoffeeTaylor Classic Cappuccino Frothing Dial ThermometerDaVinci Gourmet Classic Sugar Free Syrup, Vanilla, 25.4-OunceTorani 750 ML Syrup PumpLavazza Crema e Gusto Ground Coffee, Italian Espresso, 8.8-Ounce BrickI ended up buying the machine with a 20% off coupon, so yay for me. To be brief, I like this purchase, a lot. Sure, its a bit of a process to make a latte, but it's a labor of love, and I kind of enjoy doing it. I would say it probably takes me about 15 minutes to make two of them, so if you're dreaming of having your latte good to go in Starbucks time, it ain't happenin. But it does make a great substitute latte, and I'll admit I can't even do drip coffee anymore. I'm a snob now, that's what this machine will do to you.Here's my morning process:0) Turn on the machine, wait I dunno, a minute? While heating, go to #'s 1/2/3.1) Empty the grounds from the day before2) Put two scoops of the Lavazza grounds in the double-shot filter (I never used the single) and tamper down, secure the filter to the machine3) Put two pumps (1Tbsp) of syrup into a coffee mug (Thermos Sipp 16-Ounce Vacuum-Insulated Travel Tumbler, Stainless Steel or Contigo 16-Ounce Double Wall Stainless Steel Vacuum Insulated Tumbler)4) Brew the espresso (I usually fill a 3 oz. espresso cup to the brim)5) Switch to steam mode, wait maybe 30 sec. Steam 4oz milk (to 150F-160F)6) Pour espresso and steamed milk into coffee mug and repeat 1-6 for myselfSo again, labor of love, but for the price you really can't beat it. I wasn't willing to drop several hundred dollars on a commercial machine just to get my milk hotter, faster. You can if you'd like.Good to know:-The Lavazza grounds are the way to go. You avoid the process of having to further grind your favorite blend down to make the most of the espresso brew, plus they're super cheap via subscription. I'm all about avoiding pain when possible.-The longest part of the process, by a mile, is waiting for the milk to steam to your desired temperature. This pain can't be avoided, sorry. It's relative pain, 2-3 minutes maybe.-The next longest part of the process is simply emptying the spent grounds and putting in/tampering the new stuff. You could avoid some of this by purchasing the pods I suppose. Seemed pretty extreme to me, and not really cost efficient.-DON'T REMOVE/DETACH THE FILTER/HANDLE (TO EMPTY IT) IN STEAM MODE. Seriously, I learned this the hard way. There must be a ton of pressure built up or whatever, but if you do remove the filter (i.e. to empty the coffee grounds) in steam mode, coffee grounds will splatter all over your counter in a thunderous boom. Don't do it, you've been warned.


