1357257600
5.0
review/summary: Yeah Yeah Yeahreview/text: It is a year round struggle here with humidity, and with the winter and stuff closed in, really noticeable.This unit is quiet. I've read other reviews that say otherwise... and wonder what the blip you are writing about. If it wakes you up then you are a really light sleeper or you literally put it under your pillow. On high it is a very white noise type thing and across the room not an issue. I have tinntinitus and this is not something I can hear across the house, the sound is not grating nor carries.The casters, I found there is a c-clip in a groove... and if you have the patience to work that into the holder part of the base, the caster goes right in and seats fully. I had no issues in getting all four into place in a few minutes.It doesn't quite come up to my knees and I'm not horrendously tall. Not a huge device.The two canisters are easy to remove, carry to my shower, and fill from there with the hand held wand head off. They weigh on the order of 15# maybe with a full gallon and a half of water, not an issue to carry to replace. I have it near my furnace so the furnace can help better distribute the humid air to the rest of the house, so not far to carry the water or loud at all. I have also tried using a cheap plastic pail to fill a canister and have found it fairly easy to hold it between my feet in the shower and pour and not make a mess at all, the large mouth on the canisters make them easy to fill.It empties one canister at a time and the clear place at the bottom is easy to look to see if one or both need filling. You can remove just one canister to fill at a time and leave the unit run. It uses quite a bit of water here, a day; and the canisters need filling several times. My spouse and I check when we go past and if we see a canister empty we fill. If both canisters are full before we go to bed, it lasts the night just fine.The filter is easy to remove and replace. Just turn off unit and the front part unclips and lifts and there it is. A moment of lightly fussy tuckNaim and it's back in place with the cover back on. No bother at all.For the $ this is turning out to be quite a little gem; doing the job and easy to deal with. We have a 1200 square foot house and it is having no problems with keeping up, we are keeping humidity in the low 30's and it is a lot more comfortable. It is not unusual to battle single digit humidity here so that is a great difference. I will need to update for durability and how the filter holds up, but I am glad to have made this purchase. The cord isn't the longest. If you find a good place to put it, convenient to service, and check it regularly; it will definitely do the job.


