1352678400
5.0
review/summary: A must for any home with pets or kids.review/text: This is a great shampooer, the best one I have used. They last forever, are very simply constructed, so there is really nothing to break and replace, and I will keep buying these until they stop making them, which I hope never happens.My parents bought their first Steam Vac in the 90's (I think around 1992 or 1993) to clean our five cat, two kid household, and a rent house that my mom owns. People that have lived in that rent house either smoke, have messy kids, or are just slobs in general. She used it to clean the carpets in between tenants, and saved her a lot of money because she didn't have to replace the carpet in between each tenant. For our home when I was growing up, we stopped using professionals to steam clean our carpets, this worked good enough. We usually had around five cats (the most at one time was eleven!) and besides me and my sister, my mom also ran a daycare out of our home. I remember our first one lasted over ten years with heavy usage, it just had a brush that didn't spin, and no clean surge button, but otherwise it looked very similar. It also had a mop head attachment that fit over the brush heads and would make our tile and linoleum sparkle like new, but i haven't seen those anymore, so maybe they were discontinued. After about 10 years, it still worked mechanically, but my parents were ready for an "upgrade", so they got the Hoover Max Extract.When I moved into my first apartment in 2007, I bought a newer version of the Steam Vac very similar to this one. My apartment was run down and dirty, but it was affordable and close to downtown, so it just needed a good cleaning to make it perfectly cozy for me during college. My downstairs neighbors were heavy chain smokers, the smoke would seep into my apartment, the carpet had not been replaced before I moved in, and I had ended up with three cats after living there only two months. My carpet needed help. I was the average broke college student, but still a clean freak, and I was tired of my socks or feet turning grey from walking on my floor, so I bought this carpet cleaner at Bed Bath and Beyond. The first time I cleaned my carpet, it was amazing what came out of it. The water was brown and stinky. I went over it three more times and the water was almost clear. My apartment smelled so clean and fresh, and no more dingy socks and dirty feet from walking around inside without shoes. Two of my friends borrowed it to steam clean their apartments, and were amazed with the results. They had used the Rug Doctor rentals, but said this machine did a better job. I also noticed that it got rid of the "dog smell" in their apartments. The attachments are also great for furniture, mattresses, stairs, and car interior.After I finished my degree, I had to move back home for financial reasons. My mom had a different Hoover shampooer by now, one of the Max Extracts, and was very unhappy with it, despite it costing nearly $100 more than my trusty Steam Vac. The cleaning solution bucket leaked and would not stay locked in place on the machine. It kept falling off during use, and the cheap plastic finally cracked, making the cleaning solution bucket, and the shampooer useless. The replacement bucket was expensive, and had the same design flaw and broke within a few months. Anyway, she stole Steam Vac number two from me and is still using it and very happy with it.Now I am back on my own again with two cats and no Steam Vac. My home is mostly wood floors except for the bedrooms, so I bought a Bissell Little Green for pet messes, rugs, and spots in the bedrooms. It works for what I bought it for, but after spending nearly three hours on my hands and knees steam cleaning my entire bedroom, I want a full sized machine again, so here I am to get another Steam Vac, number three.These are made of durable plastic. Unlike shampooers friends and relatives have used that crack and split, my Steam Vacs last forever. Neither of them have leaked either. The on board water heating element on my Little Green does heat the water effectively, but it is something that might break (the heating element on my sister's full sized Bissell was the first thing to break). In my opinion, the Steam Vacs last partly because of their simplicity. Just heat the water you are going to use in a two quart pitcher in the microwave before pouring it into the machine, this is what I've always done to get the deep steam clean. The hot water from the faucet is just not hot enough. These clean great, you will be amazed at the dirt that comes out of your carpet, and having clean carpet will make your whole home smell better. This machine is not maintenance free, but no vacuum or carpet shampooer is if you want it to last. You need to clean out the collection bin with hot soapy water after each use, or bacteria will grow in there and the next time you use it, the stink will knock you out. The brushes will also collect carpet fiber and pet fur over time, but they are fairly easy to wash. Follow the directions on how to remove the brushes, wash them with hot soapy water, and let them air dry. Wipe out the area with a wet paper towel before putting the brushes back to get it even cleaner. The front can also be removed to clean out carpet fiber and dirt that collects over time. This machine will also pay for itself over a few uses if you have been calling in professionals. Plus it is always there when you need it for spills or before guests come over. I just cannot recommend this enough, I love it and can't be without one for very long.


