1352678400
1.0
review/summary: Sadly disappointed!review/text: I loved this little owl and still think it's super cute. It even works really well as a humidifier. You can see the steam shooting out, the air in the room feels great despite the use of both electric heat and a woodstove. I REALLY wish I could say that it works and just keep it and be happy with it..........BUT.... This humidifier makes everything around it wet! This is the second one I've gotten, a replacement for the first for the same problem. It seems like it's leaking because it almost always has a puddle underneath it. But it doesn't always do it, just most of the time, so it's difficult to identify what the problem actually is. It also seems like it might be heavy condensation instead of an actual leak, because everything I have anywhere near it within a 1 - 2 ft. ratio ends up with a thick layer of moist condensation on it. This is different than the standing water that seems more leak-ish that ends up directly under the humidifier after running it overnight.Has anyone else experienced this and found a trick to make it stop? I have already returned one of these, and spent several weeks waiting for the replacement. We really need a humidifier so I don't want to go without and take another several weeks to get this resolved through Amazon. I am tired of dealing with this and really just want to have a working humidifier that doesn't leak everywhere!! I hope it could be this one... but I don't know what to do. Would appreciate any suggestions.Part of the reason that I picked this humidifier is because it can run without a filter. I had a Vicks in the past that worked great, but keeping it in filters turned out to be a MAJOR expense that really added up over time. I'd love to hear recommendations from people for affordable humidifiers that don't require filters. Thanks.Also, it seems to be getting worse over time and I think I'm past the deadline to return it anyway. :(So overall, I'd recommend you go with another humidifier.


