1358121600
1.0
review/summary: Terribly plastic tastereview/text: Received this for Christmas and the coffee tastes absolutely terrible. Every cup has a plastic aftertaste, doesn't matter if it is from a K-cup or if it is my own coffee. I have 1) received a new plastic reservoir from Keurig and this did not fix it. 2) Ran vinegar through the old and new reservoirs about 10 times, varying strengths each time. I ran the reservoirs through the dishwasher as well. Keurig is sending an entirely new unit, but I don't think it is going to help because I think the Chinese plastics they are using on this $180 brewer are the issue, and they leech the smells/taste into your coffee. My Uncle/Aunt have bought 2 of these and returned both because of the plastic taste. They now use a regular brewer again. My old Keurig B40 is on its last leg, but the coffee tastes INFINITELY better from it, so I am using it while this shining "Platinum" edition sits on our counter, looking pretty while churning out s@#4&y; coffee. A lot of people don't complain about the plastic taste, but I believe that taste buds are different and some people are more sensitive to the plastic taste than others. There is DEFINITELY something wrong with the way Keurig is manufacturing their systems right now, because if you type in "Keurig plastic" into Google, you will see thousands of complaints. I guess when my B40 dies I will use my free Gevalia coffeemaker. It isn't as convenient, but at least the coffee tastes good and I won't have to worry about developing some disease 10 years from now from drinking plastic-laden coffee every morning.It really is inexcusable that Keurigs should have this problem. Seriously, type in "Keurig plastic" and see the litany of complaints about this very issue. The customer service people were quite rude as well, although they have sent a replacement coffeemaker so I guess there's that. If the replacement fixes the issue I will update this review, but I am not holding my breath at all.


