1352851200
5.0
review/summary: Murphy's Law?review/text: My first review after years of use is below. Almost as soon as I wrote this I began to experience the black grease issue others have noted. I cleaned out the outside base of the pan and expected that to solve the problem, but after removing the next loaf from the pan noted again the black grease. Good-bye Sunbeam machine. You served me well for many years. I think if I make a hundred loaves from the similarly priced replacement I will be doing well as its components are far less sturdily built than in the old one.My first foray into bread machine baking was a used machine of a different brand from a rummage sale that made tall circular loaves. This one was an improvement only because it makes rectangular loaves and being new was less tatty looking on the outside. I paid less than $60 for it new at Wal-Mart way back when. I am writing the review now because I am using it much more often this year (two or three loaves a week) and it is beginning to make grinding noises when mixing 100% wholewheat 1.5lb loaves and I have been reading reviews of much more expensive models in anticipation of needing a replacement. Given how well this machine has performed for me it is hard to justify over $200 on a so-called top-of-the-line machine and I am not sure what to do.I have only made bread and pizza dough in the Sunbeam; never tried sweet cakes or jam, etc. For 100% wholewheat bread with flax seeds and sunflower seeds I add one tablespoon of wheat gluten to each cup of flour and use quick-rise yeast. I also keep an eye on the dough during the machine's two mix cycles and push down any dough that does not mix in, adding extra flour or water as needed to get a smooth ball of dough, though I rarely have needed to do the latter. I have also made gluten-free bread successfully for visitors too although there is no specific setting for this. After all this time the finish on the pan and the paddle are still fully intact. Each of my two children has one of these, bought in 2009 and 2012 and have had no issues with them thus far. For anyone wishing to be economical in their machine selection I highly recommend this machine.The paddle sometimes stays in the loaf and sometimes stays in the pan. As my machine came with a handy hook for removing the paddle from either that has not been a problem. I did try removing the paddle before the bake cycle to reduce the hole in the loaf, but there is still a hole from the spindle obviously and it was not worth the effort.Summer was hot and this house does not have A/C. Making bread one afternoon was a mess. The dough "boiled over" the top of the pan and dropped down onto the heating element. I learned only to make the bread beginning in the morning during the summer.One thing we would like to improve upon is the top crust. There is an expensive machine with a heater in the lid, but I suspect that the crunchy crust of "artisanal" bread available locally is the result of some type of wash painted on the loaves at some point during the baking in the oven. I could try that in the bread machine too I suppose. Comments on the expensive machine say only that the top crust comes out like the bottom of the loaf. I also wish the cord was longer, but whether one needs that is a function of kitchen design, not the machine. The screen is difficult to read, but if necessary I use a flashlight.The recipes in the booklet are not particularly good and don't work well. There are good recipes on the King Arthur Flour website for bread machine loaves. Try those.After writing this I may be concluding that I should just buy another Sunbeam if this one dies . . . .


