1353542400
3.0
review/summary: Doesn't seem appropriate for my lifestylereview/text: Years ago, I told myself I would never get a bread maker. But I've heard that they've improved over the years, and that they are now capable of making very nice loaves of bread. Last year a colleague of mine said that he sets his up at night and programs it to produce a nice fresh loaf of bread just as he wakes up. Mmmm. So with this image in mind, my wife and I added this to our wedding registry (besides, having lived together for years, we didn't really "need" anything).Several months after our marriage, I finally got around to unpacking it and reading the instructions just last night. This thing is heavy and quite large. The majority of included recipes called for dried milk, which we didn't have on hand. The recipe for french bread didn't require dried milk, and was very straightforward. I proceeded to prep that and I set the timer so that the bread would be done when we were planning to wake up at 10am (don't judge...it's a holiday for us!). Off to bed we go at around 2:30am. At around 6:00am, during our deepest of deep sleeps, we were rudely awakened by some loud noises. It almost sounded like someone was tapping the kitchen cabinets with their knuckles. After I realized that it was the bread maker starting up, we tried to go back to sleep. Moments later, the bread maker started mixing the dough. The sound was easily 2-3x louder than our Bosch dishwasher. Several minutes later, the sound stopped and we were able to go back to sleep.I should explain a bit about of lifestyle.... We live in a loft, so there are no walls between our bed and our kitchen. The selling point of this bread maker for us was the idea of fresh bread in the morning. Needless to say, it won't be something we'll be enjoying due to the noise is makes, unless of course we move. Another thing about our loft... well, it's in the city. Which means small kitchen. The bread maker is quite large, and the space that this bread maker occupies could definitely be used more productively. Especially considering that during my 15 minute commute to/from work (walk+metro), I pass by no fewer that 4 bakeries and 5 stores that sell fresh locally made bread. Finally, I should add that my wife and I only eat bread maybe 2 or 3 times per week. If we were a family of four or five who ate bread every day, I can see this being more ideal, as we'd probably go through a loaf every couple of days.At 10am, we woke to the sound of the bread maker's beeping sound and smell of freshly baked bread. We removed the loaf, let it cool, and sliced it up. The crust was crispy, but nothing great considering it was supposed to be french bread. Flavor was okay, but remember that I'm spoiled with lots of great choices around here. I'm assuming that this unit will probably do a better job with other types of bread, like raisin bread or whole wheat sandwich loaves. So we'll be playing around with it over the coming weeks. I will also make pizza dough with it next week to see how the final product compares to my own hand-kneaded dough.The 3 stars are based on my experience with this unit after one use and realizing why it's not ideal for us. I considered not even writing this review, since I'm obviously an outlier and people will likely flag this review Not Useful (1000+ reviews averaging 4.5 stars!), but thought I'd share my thoughts for others who might live a similar lifestyle to ours. After all, the value of Amazon reviews are not in the stars themselves, but in what people actually write.


