1347148800
5.0
review/summary: "All American Pressure Cooker" Model 921 (21.5 Quarts)review/text: We're from just outside the Green Bay, Wisconsin (home of the famous Green Bay Packers - "Go Pack!"). :) A lot farming in the area and terrific Farmer's Markets all around so we have plenty to choose from come mid-summer and harvest time. We didn't do any canning before we moved here five years ago and started out using the standard products offered at all the local chain stores. The first one was one of those inexpensive units they sell just to see if we'd like it. We did have fun and it ended up being too small. So we stepped up up with a few more bucks and purchased a larger 16 quart unit which had a rubber ring in the lid to seal it under pressure. It worked fine but again we found it too small ... we were canning more things and as the economy worsened the opportunity to can fresh vegetables and fruit seemed more practical than ever. So once again we stepped up, this time to the "All American" Pressure Cooker that was just over 21 quarts.We didn't make the purchase spontaneously though. After doing our research on line, and talking with others at the markets, we found it had unique attributes that differentiated it from other pressure cookers. First and foremost it doesn't require the use of a "rubber ring" to retain the seal. Although the rubber ring was never a problem for us it's always a slight concern in the back of our minds and we knew eventually we'd have to change it, but never knew when, or where to buy it, or if it would even be available when the old one failed. But there are other features that make the "All American" units superior to others on the market. Beyond it's robust construction, the method used to secure the lid using screw down latches is infinitely safer than the standard way of screwing the lid on just to find out it wasn't on securely as the pressure started to build up - this happened to us numerous times. We also found the pressure gauge and pressure relief valve to be quite reliable. Although it was larger we found it to be easy to clean too.In summary, we are very pleased with our All American purchase and strongly recommend it to anyone planning on canning now or in the future. The company has been around for ever and being "Made-In-America" does provide a level of quality that other products just can't compete with. Oh, one more thing. Because they are engineered and built so much better than the foreign units they are more expensive. Initially this was pause for concern, it seemed like a lot then but we found, "... the All American Pressure Cooker will be around long after the price is forgotten."


