1358208000
5.0
review/summary: Cooking in these pots are a great endless way to cookreview/text: The past year I have really learned to cook with Cast Iron and fell in love with cast iron cookware from Lodge.I have a full kitchen of their products, lids, pots, pans, loaf pans, and pizza pan. Food cooks so much better and stay warm for so long. You can cook on the stove or put the whole pan right in the oven. This works best with a lid on a lot of food.Last week I placed a stuffed oven stuffer roaster 8 lb chicken in this pot placed my seasons on chicken skin then In the oven it went with lid loose on the top to allow it to vent out moisture. 3 hours later I get a perfect lightly browned moist chicken every time. Now the great thing about cast iron is that when you take it off stove or out of oven and place the lid on it will stay warm for over an hour and stay moist.I did tonight in a smaller pot but you can use this one for chicken parm too. I sliced chicken breast in thin slices, egged and breaded with italian bread crumbs then I fried them in my other Lodge cast Iron frying pan in olive oil, cast iron pots are so great to fry in as the really keep oil just the right balance. once I was done cooking chicken in pan, I layered tomato sauce in bottom of pot then added chicken, motz cheese.. more sauce... etc sauce and cheese on top. then just put the pot in pre heated oven 35 min. When I took it out was a bubbling melted beauty.... Now here is a big advantage to this cast iron cook ware. My wife called she was going to be 45 min late... no big deal. I just placed the lid on pot which holds in moisture plus holds the heat. I placed it back in oven which was turned off. 45 min later when I took it out to serve its was still perfect moist but hot enough to hold the in its melty state just perfect.............I have learned this is a big advantage to using their pots and pans. The covers really are a big plus. They all hold heat so well it will keep you food hot when you take it off heat but stop cooking the food when you place lid on and let it stand for as long as on hour.Ok Cleaning cast iron is also different. You really dont want to wash the pot out with soap! I will rinse the pot out with just plain hot water and a non soap type steel wool pad or sponge with scrubber pad. Then dry with paper towel.The more oils that get inbed into the pan the better it cooks and repels food from sticking. Sometimes when I boil water in pot it will dry oil out and after cleaning I add veg oil to pot and im done. If the oil is removed by soap or oil disapears it can rust.... not that rust will kill you but lodge says not to use soap too, you want to keep pots and pans seasoned and over time nothing sticks to them not even fried eggs in a pan. But every time you use the pan you preheat it and the heat kills all germs anyway. Its also a fact that a family can get natural its daily iron from cooking in this cookware. Well give one a try with a lid......... also the lids are all inter change-able with all pots and pans. I started with one and realized this is so much a better way to cook. The cookware is heavy to handle but thats also what makes it cook so well as it holds the heat so well throughout the cookware.


