1358812800
1.0
review/summary: Sputters Boiling Hot Water! Dangerous!review/text: After reading many reviews saying this was a great product I decided to purchase it. I saw the ones stating it shot out water, but since there was so many positives I was sure those negatives just weren't using it correctly. I thought it would work great for steaming my photography backgrounds. I was very wrong. I read through the instructions to make sure I knew how to use it. Since it was my first time using a steamer. I was careful to not fill past the Max Fill Line. I plugged it in and let it heat up. It sputtered a few drops of water but then stopped and I could see the steam coming out. I began steaming my background and then it began to sputter water again. And ended up getting my background pretty wet. So I unplugged it, and emptied out some of the water. Thinking maybe there was still too much in it. That seemed to do the trick. I was able to steam a lot of the background without having another issue. I had only wanted to test it out, so I didn't use all the water in the reservoir. I unplugged the steamer and went off to do some other things. There was still about an inch and a half of water in it. When I went back later to finish steaming, I plugged it in. I left the room to grab something, and when I returned (not 3 minutes later) it was shooting water out, and the table I had it sitting on had a large puddle of water all over it. I thought this could be due to having too little of water, so I went and filled it up. Leaving it BELOW the max fill line. I plugged it back in, and this time set it on a towel, just to be safe. I watched it as it began to boil, and sure enough, it started shooting water out again. It wasn't just dribbling out. It was spraying! In a matter of seconds it had soaked the towel. When I unplugged it, I saw that it had sprayed out almost half the water I had put in it. There was NO WAY I was going to use this any where near my backgrounds. I didn't want them soaked! Which they would have been. I am extremely disappointed with this steamer. I have already printed out return labels to send it back and it is packaged up to go. What a serious waste of my time!


