1356134400
1.0
review/summary: JUNK! Save the receipt and box so you can return it!review/text: Surprise...Surprise...Surprise! My Keurig B70 Plantinum also suddenly stopped working. The water will get hot, but when I push the button to brew it will not pump water out. It does pump water into the boiler but once it's ready for brewing--Nothing! I have done research about how to fix it including hitting the bottom a few times, cleaning the intake under the water container, descaling, using a paper clip to remove possible clogging, using kitchen sink sprayer to force water through the water intake to clear possible clogging, removed the bottom metal plate and removed the plastic pump cover to check for clogging. Nothing has worked so far. Maybe I will eventually figure it out; Then again, maybe the motor has to be replaced?! The bottom line is that this problem shouldn't be happening to so many people. Let's be honest, this brewer is really nothing but an expensive piece of junk. The pump problems effect other Keurig models as well. Just watch the various Youtube videos of people who are giving tips about fixing and you will notice other models are effected. So I expect Keurig to continue to manufacture the same junk--at least until enough people simply give it a pass when it comes to buying its products.I know it's not an easy decision to pass on Keurig because there are very few alternatives, such as Cuisinart's Single Serve Brewing System, which also apparently has similar pump problems. Even the Mr. Coffee Single-Serve version which uses "KEURIG TECHNOLOGY" has many negative reviews. So again, it looks like Keurig strikes again and is now making Mr. Coffee look bad. But at least Mr. Coffee's version is only $79 as opposed to $160 or more for Keurig's B70 Platinum junk. Even the $299 Breville BKC700XL Gourmet Single-Serve Coffeemaker with Iced-Beverage Function has many negative reviews. Why? Because it too uses KEURIG TECHNOLOGY.My advice if you are going to take a chance with Keurig junk is to save the receipt, save the box and be aware that chances are you will have problems with this coffee maker in about a year or less. If you plan on giving a Keurig as a gift, especially to a family member, again, save the receipt and ask the person to save or give you the box and let the person know that if it breaks down to let you know, so you can return it.


