1345507200
5.0
review/summary: Pyrex, the French Crown Prince in line for the Tupperware thronereview/text: PYREX STORAGE 10-PIECE SET is one of the most brilliant and wonderfully sale-priced items you can ever get. This set contains two 2-cup round, one 3.5-cup rectangular, one 4-cup round, and one 6-cup rectangular Pyrex glass storage containers, each with its own lid.I can never get sufficiently deep into the excellence of Pyrex, except to remind everyone it is one great thing the French engineers gave us besides the Statue of Liberty. Did you know Pyrex was originally invented as a glass front for train engine headlamps? Therefrom, Pyrex continues its old tradition of excellence - proved by the simple fact that any Pyrex storage bowl can go directly from the freezer to the microwave or conventional ovens.Try that with any other container and see what you get.Being disabled and in a wheelchair, I can't sing praises high enough for my old, old friend Pyrex. Whether it is a small bowl, a large rectangular casserole or a famous Pyrex measuring cup, life would be insupportable without Pyrex. And THIS from a "Tupperware man"! While I can boast I've never dropped a thing in my life, even with these hands I have now, my wife has sadly dropped her share of Pyrex items.Need I remind you that Pyrex is nearly indestructable?Mama had these types of Pyrex bowls from the time they were first available - which she added to a respectable Pyrex collection of undetermined age. Next to Tupperware, Pyrex was her second favorite collection. It was a collection she and the whole household used daily. What saddens me is she seemed to think Pyrex had got too expensive, and after a point she ceased to buy anymore.The containers have that surprise I mentioned: you can freeze food in them and go from freezer to microwave or regular ovens. I do not recommend that simply because of safety issues. People are not mindful and Pyrex can BURN right out of an oven - and Pyrex is not easy to handle with a potholder or towel. What I do with the Pyrex items is mostly confined to storing leftovers and when I'm ready, I pop them into the microwave. Pyrex is TOUGH.The container sizes are the perfect size and shape. Don't think of how you'll use them - buy them and let them tell you how useful they will be. In my family, as we always did with Tupperware, we use Pyrex to store anything and everything.DO NOT miss this opportunity to start a great Pyrex collection that I guarantee you will use; the price simply sings out to one, "Buy me! I am worthy!" - and you'll find out for yourself!


