1347235200
2.0
review/summary: Plenty of Power but Flimsy and Short Livedreview/text: I understand this vacuum was not going to be the best on the market at it's current price point. Even though I was mostly happy with it when I first received it, after quite a few months of average usage on mostly tile flooring, it has become apparent it was not the best choice.Certainly this vacuum has plenty of power and suction for the size and the price. That is not the issue. What is so disappointing is that the product itself is so overly flimsy. The wand is multi-piece for easy breakdown but the plastic is so thin that there is an overall sense of weakness when maneuvering the wand even on a smooth tile floor. When vacuuming carpet or rugs, the weakness really becomes apparent and if you are using all the pieces of the wand for its full length, there is so much flex that there is no sense of control. If you have fine furniture, be especially careful when vacuuming around it.Though the cheap wand is the most disappointing feature of the vacuum, the wheels are another weak point. They are plastic and "pop" into body. When in use, the vacuum does not so much follow you as most canister vacuums but seems more to drag behind. They have not held up and I have already had to repair the same one twice now. Additionally, the hose is very thin, cheap and easily creased.We only use this vacuum downstairs on our tile flooring and to vacuum carpeted steps so the use level is average to below average. With that in mind, this vacuum should have been more than enough to handle the job. However, it seems the manufacturer has used some really cheap plastic and parts in an attempt to keep the cost down and/or the profit up. I never expected this to perform like a $200 hundred dollar vacuum, but it should at least be able to perform to minimal standards. Even though the suction seems adequate, the rest of the unit is so cheap that it now truly makes vacuuming a chore. I would have imagined that for as little as 10 dollars more they could have made this unit much more acceptable and pleasant to use.In my opinion, spend a few dollars more and get a better vacuum. It will be worth it in the long run. With this unit, you will really dislike vacuuming and you will need a new one in 6 months anyway.


