1355097600
4.0
review/summary: Hoover v. Bissel ProHeat Carpet Cleaner Reviewreview/text: I just bought this unit at our local Walmart as the belt on our older Bissel ProHeat broke, and I was kind of frustrated with the Bissel anyway. The Bissel had a separate bottle that held the cleaner for mixing, and that had started leaking after the first year or so. The Bissel we had is essentially the same design as being sold currently under the ProHeat 2x label. After having used both, here's my thoughts:Pros for the Hoover:Brushes: The brushed on this unit go around in little circles rather than having the typical horizontal bar. They are also softer than the Bissel. While initially this sounded like it might result in poorer cleaning, the opposite seemed to be true. I have found time & time again during boat cleaning that a softer brush usually cleans much better than a stiffer brush. You're really looking for agitation of the fabric & cleaner, not "scrubbing" per se. Further, the Bissel with the stiffer brushes would remove little "carpet bunnies" (like dust bunnies) from the carpet, leaving them all over the place. This lead to faster carpet wear, where the Bissel seemed to leave the carpet softer.Plastics: While I can't say about the inner gears for the brushes, the majority of the plastic on this unit is more flexible, and less brittle than the Bissel. As a result, while it is plastic, I don't think it will break as easily. The Bissel seemed to keep having issues with little parts snapping and being brittleWeight: The unit is considerably lighter than the Bissel, making it less of a chore to use.Two Tanks - One for clean & one for dirty water: The reviews seem to make a much bigger deal out of this than it really is. I used both, and both work relatively well. You might stop more often with the 2 tanks, choosing for example to empty the dirty tank while still having some clean water yet to use. However, this means that you're emptying the dirty water without inadvertently pouring out cleaning solution (this didn't happen much to me). The two-tank unit however was much easier to clean out, and I felt made a clear "dividing line" between the tanks. Again, not a huge issue, but I would probably give the thumbs up to the two-tank approach.Stair & Upholstery Unit - Storage: The onboard storage of these items is much better than the Bissel, and they do not get caught and fall off as much as the Bissel. That was a pain, having the hose fall to the side and leak out on the old Bissel.Cleaning: I went over some spots that did not get thoroughly clean with the previous day's use of the Bissel. The Hoover seemed to pull out more dirt, and the carpet was noticeably cleaner after the pass with the Hoover. That being said, someone might argue that the same thing might have happened with a second pass of the Bissel. Any way about it, if you have a stubborn spot, you're still best off spraying some additional cleaner and hand "agitating" the spot, i.e. lightly scrubbling to gently loosen the stain before sucking it out with the machine.Cons for the Hoover:Cord: The electrical cord could certainly be another 5 to 10 feet longer, and was shorter than the Bissel. However, for the price (about $70 less than the Bissel), I'll put up with plugging in an extension cord if I really need it.Hose/Stair & Upholstery Tool: Again, this could easily have been another 3 feet longer, which would make it much better for longer staircases. This is certainly a negative, but not insurmountable as the unit seems to work well not just from the bottom of the stairs up, but from the top down as well. A second downside to this is that you have to manually connect the hose and the secondary spray hose to use it. This adds a little bit to the time and complexity, and yes, it means you NEED to read the instructions and may have to refer back to them later if you only use your machine once a year or so. However it means you can also leave it off the machine until you need it, thus not dragging a hose and tool around with you all the time. I think it is also offset by not having as many valves and connections to leak like the Bissel (which remained constantly connected).No additional on-board heater: The Bissel has that, but I am not sure how much that ever really added to the water temperature or cleaning efficiency. It certainly would have added to the weight of the Bissel. To offset this, turn up your water heater to high an hour or so before cleaning your carpets, and it will stay plenty hot during cleaning.So, overall when I compared the $130 Hoover to the $200 Bissel, it seems as though for me the Hoover will get the nod - the Hoover is lighter weight, seems less prone to breakage, cleans as well (and maybe better), leaks less, and results in less carpet wear.I was prepared to knock the Hoover and return it if I didn't think it performed well, but in my side-by-side comparison, I'm glad I'm going to ditch the Bissel.Hope this helps!


