1360713600
5.0
review/summary: I'll sheepishly admit I use mine as a portable shopvacreview/text: Originally I purchased this yo clean up our cars. It was great, but cleaning up the cars was no fun. Lately, I've been adding recessed lights and speakers to our bedrooms - and creating holes that needed patching. You wouldn't believe the amount of dust sanding holes around a room creates, it flies slowly around, drifting to all parts of the room until it settles. To top it off, I have prefinished hardwood floors that have cracks between the boards, catching all dust whenever you try to mop.Yes, I have a regular sized shop vac. It's a pain to lug around and it's accessories are somewhere hidden in the house.plus buying the bags for it and emptying it is a pain. I grabbed his vacuum ibstead, reasoning that it was cheap to replace and yellow like my shopvac... (Genius right).It did a great job! As anyone who has ever had to clean up drywall knows, the ultra fine dust clogs all household vacuums. I will also admit that I have a useless Dyson in my closet that taught me this lesson. The filter on this vac started looking like some sort of moldy growth, so I ordered a new genuine replacement from amazon and wow. Wow. It was even more powerful, bending the hairs and the end of the brush attachment while it stuck to the floor. Every crack is now clean, even the ones where the dust caked into the crack. At the end of my cleaning frenzy, i found a wire nut and 2 screws in the vacuum. Oops.Yes, the back blower is powerful. A couple times I accidentally tugged on the hose and the back blew the dust everywhere... That's user error. It's a small powerful vacuum, it has to create a lot of blowing power. No blowing power = no suction power. Yes, it's a little heavy to drag around for a flight of stair cleaning, but it's powerful and I would argue way better than a full sized vacuum for the job. My only wish is that the hose was a bit more stretchy, as stated earlier, a full stroke with the house sometimes contracts the hose and pulls the vacuum blower towards your way. I suppose that's why I have two hands but I just keep forgetting.It's a great, durable vacuum. The price is amazing as well. Be sure to grab an extra filter: Genuine Eureka DCF-11 Filter 62558A - 1 filter for Eureka 71B" from Amazon.


