1361145600
4.0
review/summary: Good Blender Has Small Irritationsreview/text: I had an older Kitchen Aid blender for many years, until lightning hit my apartment building and damaged the soft touch control pad. We got by with a cheaper Oster until finally getting a new Kitchen Aid as a Christmas gift.With only a handful of uses under my belt, my first impression is that I like the one-piece pitcher. As long as the blade mechanism holds up, this seems like a good idea. I have no problems with leakage thus far, and clean up is relatively easy. It does pulverize frozen fruit and ice far better than our Oster, so I'm impressed with that. We made a frozen fruit smoothy in a fraction of the time without using a utensil to push the contents around so that they are thoroughly blended. But then again, our old KA blender was a workhorse too, but the newer model seems more capable at this task.As other reviewers have noted, the blade starts at a slower speed then quickly increases to the speed you chose. This feature seems awkward and almost as if it's a malfunction, and I am not yet used to the small delay that occurs before the blade spins up to full speed. And I'm a bit perplexed at this feature because it doesn't seem to prevent exactly what it is supposed to; stop the contents from being thrown into the lid. Frankly, I wish there was a disable switch (like the ability to turn off the intrusive traction control system with some vehicles).Another thing I am not thrilled with is the color we have, 'Metallic Chrome.' This appears to be a painted on finish. In the few times we have used it, there are already signs of marring where the pitcher contacts the base, revealing the black plastic beneath it. I don't think the finish will hold up well as it gets dinged and scratched from normal use and likely look hideous before the unit itself expires.My conclusion is that while the unit seems to work as well as it was intended to, and hopefully is a durable as the previous Kitchen Aid products we have owned, the questionable slow start feature and cheap surface finish have me wondering what's going on at Kitchen Aid.


