1358467200
5.0
review/summary: I am just about ready to use it for first time.review/text: These are fantastic, I actually learned about Lodge Cast Iron in Mexico. Went to spend a week many years ago in Mexico at the house of the family of a gal I was dating. Her mom had some Lodge, a big deep like 5 qt. or something and a couple of frying pans that her mother got as a wedding gift.On that trip I actually used one of the fry pans to do a grilled cheese and do some eggs I think. I remember that I was impressed and called them Henry Cabot pans so I would remember after the statesman, Lodge.That was 30 plus years ago, I am not sure I remember the gals name I dated. But when I saw this Gold Box Deal I had only a few minutes so I didn't read much and ordered it, and after I did I thought, I thought I hope this is the same quality, and hoping it wasn't made in China. When I opened the box , which had big yellow tags HEAVY USE CARE, I pushed away the plastic air filled bags and attached to the handle was an American Flag Tag , on the other side was a smaller flag WITH BOLD TYPE LETTERS, Made in the USA. I am approaching 70 now, and can remember when those three words appeared everywhere. I am planning on getting a smaller pan soon.Maybe we can do something like in Finland, who has the best schools in the world these days, teachers must have a masters and teaching credentials,many teachers have been in business retired early and teach. I think they said even the head of Nokia teaches, and it is all neighborhood schools if the kids don't move they go all the way through school with the same kids.And the kids walk to school because it is only a few blocks away. And I am going to make a note on the will to make sure themom who makes sure my place is clean gets the Lodge Pans. This stuff will last at least 120 years which is how long Lodge has made these things in Tennessee.I am not now or ever been employed or a represented either Lodge Mfg. or Amazon. Gotta go have a nice New York State wants to meet &#34; the skillet&#34;.


