1350259200
5.0
review/summary: This vacuum cleaner matched a KIRBY!review/text: The Kirby guys showed up at my door a few weeks ago, touting the newest product in their line of $3000 vacuum cleaners. I was home, I had the time, so I let them in to do their demonstration. They made a big show of comparing their product to my Hoover, pointing out the Hoover's plastic body vs. the Kirby's aluminum, the Hoover's plastic tubes vs. the Kirby's indestructible, bullet-proof, hoses, etc.The salesman confidently set up his baking soda demonstration, jauntily sprinkling my carpets with white. He plugged in the Hoover, sure that it was no match for Kirby's uber-suction. He didn't know what I knew though: this little, plastic, made-in-China Hoover can SUCK! He sucked up all the baking soda, doing a 100-count to prove that no matter how many times he went over the spot, there would still be stuff left behind. Then he whipped out the Kirby, popped in a black filter to show me how much was still in the carpet, flipped the cleaner on, and ... nothing. Granted, he ended up with a few little white flecks on his filter. He made a big show of changing out one filter after another, but each one would have no more than a few minute specks of white.He went on to do a test with a plastic suction tester that's used in product testing. He said that if a vacuum cleaner is strong enough, you won't be able to pull the tester off while the machine is running. He (still confident) flipped the Hoover over, popped the tester onto the bottom and turned the vacuum on. He grabbed the tester, and what do you know? it wouldn't come off! I guess his hands were getting sweaty by this point, cause each time he tried seemed harder than the last. And when he tried the same test on the Kirby, it actually had more give.So he gave up and moved on to touting the Kirby's additional features - the carpet cleaner, the attachments, etc. And while it was still impressive, the salesman knew that his indestructible $3000 Kirby had been defeated by a humble $80 Hoover. I made him a cup of coffee and sent him on his way, then proudly returned my Hoover to its place in the hall closet.The End.All that to say, this is a good vacuum cleaner. Don't bother with expensive nonsense. This'll get your carpets clean and then some. Replacement bags are cheap, belts are cheap, and I see this machine lasting for a good 5-10 years... at which time, I'd just buy another.


