1351987200
5.0
review/summary: Adding my 2 cents.review/text: After reading a number of reviews on the Eureka, I was tempted to purchase it. I didn't. Frankly, after surfing and reading about it, I went on using the vacuums that I already own. Basically, I put it out of my mind. Then Amazon, who keeps tabs our surfing habits, sent me an advertising email. They indicated that the Eureka unit was on sale. I went ahead and purchased it. I'm glad that I did. I needed a vacuum for my stairway. I was tired of my other vacuums. They either have weak suction or, worse, are heavy vacuum cleaners that leave me huffing and puffing after lugging them up and down stairs. I thought I'd give this little vacuum a try. The price was certainly right.It has been just the ticket. I used to vacuum the stairway only when I absolutely necessary. Now, the stairway a part of my regular routine. The handheld has enough power for what I need. In fact, I was a little surprised by the good suction. Frankly, I didn't really think the Eureka would be as good as it is. How do they produce such a nice unit and still charge a reasonable price?My one concern was that it would be too heavy, but, though it isn't extremely light. That is, I do know that I am lifting the unit, it isn't too bad. It is a heck of a lot better than anything else that I own. I've tried so many different vacuums and this one is a keeper. I've even used it in the hard to get to corners of my house. It has been just fine for that job too.One other thing that I particularly enjoy is being able to flip the vacuum "lip" in order to vacuum the stair risers. While it is a little more awkward, it is a wonderful feature to have. I don't think my stair risers have ever gotten such a good vacuum job. ;-)The cord is a good length. It reaches from the bottom to the top of my stairs without any problems. I do have a plugin on the first landing, but it would even reach all the way up if it was plugged in at the stairway base.That's about it for my review. What can you say about a vacuum? It works. I'm happy. My stairs look much better. In fact, today is vacuum day at my house. I will be using the Eureka very shortly.


