1350604800
4.0
review/summary: Excited to tryreview/text: I decided to purchase this after I couldn't find my ironing board. Also, I just plain hate ironing. This seemed like a good alternative.My first use of it did not go so well. I think the main issue is that I had no idea what to expect. This isn't some magic wand that will instantly smooth everything out... at least not the way I first used it! I read the other reviews that said to go slowly, which I did. The instruction manual says to go from bottom to top. I just couldn't do it this way without trouble. It is much easier to go from top to bottom, which I'm sure did not help with my expected results. Anyway, after about 30 minutes, I did manage to flatten out my severely wrinkled heavy cotton shirt. Probably about as much time as I would have spent with an iron (I said I'm not good at ironing, either!).My second shirt went much better. I only spent about 3-5 minutes on it and it came up way better than I could have ironed it. I was very happy with that. The shirt was not as heavy as the first one, so I'm sure this was a major factor.My biggest problem is just never having used anything like this before. The hose took a bit of maneuvering to avoid it from kinking (it actually got a really bad kink from just flopping over from its own weight). I had to twist it just right to make sure it didn't kink at all, so in my opinion, the hose could be a bit sturdier. I also agree with most other reviews that the pole is just not high enough. I found myself bending over pretty much the whole time.Wheel locks or just a heavier base would help a bit too. It does roll around slightly or at least gives that impression. It's not unsafe, but it does feel like you need to be careful. This is not something I'd want to roll around the house over long distances, either.Overall, for the price and if I can truly hang up the iron forever, then I will be extremely satisfied with this purchase. Four stars for now... I'll do a few more shirts and see if it feels like a five after!


