1359158400
2.0
review/summary: Disappointing if only making 2-4 cupsreview/text: My husband and I refer to the bell signifying our coffee's dripped and ready as "Call of the Wild," which should cue you into how important it is for us to get it right without going crazy and spending a million bucks.That said, we hoped to get a more satisfying cup of joe with stout full-bodied flavor with Cuisinart's burr mill. But it has been a big disappointment.First, it was very difficult trying to get the two adjustments for an optimal grind to work together, having to fiddle repeatedly with the 18 different grind size choices at the same time as picking the number of cups we wanted ground fresh. (It's geared to grind exactly how much you've selected by pressing "start" without having to hold the bar down.) Too fine grounds make for a bitter cup and too large ones don't deliver the flavor. Only now do we appreciate how well our coffee company has perfected this process, which explains why the coffee we usually buy is STILL better preground than the same brand/type beans we've been trying to grind ourselves fresh with this grinder.That's because even when you think you've got your grind setting right, it's impossible to fine-tune the number of cup measures if you're not making a pot for a crowd because the choices are limited to 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18. It's like Cuisinart figured everybody wanting a mug or two of great coffee have defected to the "la-la" pod makers, which is just the opposite direction of where coffee connoisseurs ever head. If you want to make a single large mug, the "4" setting grinds too much (we would have wanted a "3"). For two mugs, we would have wanted a "5," but that's not an available choice either. In any case, you are left grinding more beans than you want and either making more coffee than you planned (big waste of money!) or going back to remeasuring and making a mess. And it's a mess because the grounds do not pour out well from the small rectangular bin whether you try to tap them out from the opening in the back or take off the clumsily-fitting top lid. The grounds all just want to dump out in a big lump, but because the bin's plastic and there's no shoot or spout, and grounds static-cling to its sides, too. The bin is also difficult to slide back into the mill, taking multiple jiggling tries--like a bad door key.The only pluses are that you can store beans in the top hopper, having to fill it only every couple of days, and that the grinding noise is less than expected, letting you use the machine even before your partner's up as long as you have at least one closed door between the two of you. BIGGEST DISADVANTAGE: the results will cause enumerable fights between frustrated couples!!!It's too bad Cuisinart didn't do its homework because it could have made this a sensational product for little more investment. It needs to 1) increase the setting choices for amount of coffee ground cup by cup starting at 2 so that those not making a full pot--most people--can use it (i.e., 2, 3, 4, 5, 6...) and 2) redesign the cheap bin with a usable pour spout or shoot in glass, not plastic. I would have willingly paid $5-10 for these features...and been happy.


