1358812800
4.0
review/summary: Low Price, Great Valuereview/text: Hamilton Beach Big Mouth Juicer / B000FHQJ6CI bought this juicer back in 2009 and have used it less than I'd hoped (more on that in a minute) but often enough to feel that the purchase was worth it. When aKuvings NJ-9500U Centrifugal Juice Extractorcame up on Vine, I figured I was well-placed to review an expensive juicer and contrast it with the cheaper stuff on the market, and post the same essential review in both places. But I'll just cut to the chase right here: as a hobbyist juicer who just wants to whirl the juice out of a handful of fruits, I cannot honestly tell that much of a difference between the expensive Kuvings and the half-price Hamilton -- the Kuvings is better in some ways, but it's not twice as good in proportion to being twice as expensive.* Parts: Both the juicers have mostly the same basic parts: base (with cord and buttons), whirl-er (where the mesh screen sits and the juice comes out), pulp-bucket (where the waste goes), top (where the fruit is fed), and piston (to help jam the fruits through the top and to the whirl-er. But I was surprised to see that the juice pitcher that came standard with the Hamilton is NOT included with the Kuvings; you have to supply your own bowl for the juice to pour into, and since our bowl was wide and uncovered, the new juice pouring in caused the existing juice to splash lightly all over the nearby counter, which I found quite annoying.Advantage: Hamilton.* Weight: The juicers take up about the same footprint on the counter, in terms of width and height. The immediate obvious difference is that the Kuvings is plastic and lighter, whereas the Hamilton is heavier and uses stainless steel clamps. The lighter Kuvings is easier to carry, but I don't know how sturdy the clamps will be over time. Personally, I care more about weight than about sturdiness (we tend to 'baby' our appliances in general).Advantage: Kuvings* Assembly: The Kuvings is more fussy at assembly time; the pulp-bucket has to be sort of tilted up and in and snapped into the top before then being tilted down and sideways to snap into the bottom. The Hamilton, in contrast, just has the pulp-bucket sit flush to the side and the top secures it in place.Advantage: Hamilton.* Speeds: The Kuvings has two speeds, regular and turbo; the Hamilton only has one. Since I only use fruits with my juicers (and therefore only use the regular speed on the Kuvings), I can't say whether the turbo speed is worth the extra cost. That's something to look into if you're planning to use really tough veggies in your juices.Advantage: Neither / Depends.* Noise: The Kuvings boasts a 350-watt motor while the Hamilton uses an 800-watt motor. I do think the Kuvings is less noisy, but not proportionately so and not so much that it doesn't still mightily startle the cats. What I am saying is, when you are using the Kuvings, the rest of the house is aware that you are using the Kuvings. And when you are using the Hamilton, the rest of the house is aware that you are using a slightly louder version of the Kuvings. Neither of them are so loud that the neighbors will hear, nor so soft that you won't disturb your napping husband.Advantage: Kuvings.* Cleaning: Cleaning is the major reason I don't juice more often, and it's an area where I think improvement is possible. The only thing that doesn't need to be cleaned after juicing is the base (unless it got dripped on, which does happen); the whirl-er, piston, pulp-bucket, and juice pitcher will all need cleaning. (I did see recommended in another review that the pulp-bucket be lined with a plastic bag, which is a good idea I will try next time.)This means that if you want a quick juice on your way in to work, you have to assemble the juicer, run the juicer, unassemble the juicer, and either wash everything or at least put all four parts in the sink to soak. If you skip the unassemble-and-wash steps, you will come home to a sticky caked-on mess that will be a nightmare to clean. And since none of this is particularly fast, it means that your 'quick juice' is going to be a 20-minute proposition. No, that doesn't mean that the juicers are "hard" to clean, but it does take time -- or at least it does for us. (Maybe the rest of you have super-speed powers. If so, please come wash my dishes?)Both the Kuvings and the Hamilton use the mesh-screen whirl-er and that little guy is a fright to get clean. Husband -- who does the dishes in our family -- has declared after a great deal of consideration that the Kuvings mesh is slightly faster to scrub clean than the Hamiltons mesh, so I will award the advantage on his say-so but with the caveat that the Kuvings mesh still took several minutes of scrubbing to clean. (Husband also registers a concern that the Kuvings cleaning brush doesn't seem very sturdy. But we'll cross that bridge when we get there.)Advantage: Kuvings.* Juiciness: Both the Hamilton and the Kuvings juiced the heck out of a collection of apples and clementines, and in both cases the pulp was very dry afterward. And in both cases there was a lot of flecky foam that can either be strained with a cheesecloth or can be stirred in and drunk. We saw no difference in actual juicing performance between the two juicers.Advantage: Neither / Identical Performance.---I'm pretty sure that if you add everything up mathematically, the Kuvings comes out as better than the Hamilton. But the advantage overall is pretty slight -- the Kuvings is lighter, but seems more in danger of breakage; the Kuvings is less noisy, but not super-noticeably so; the Kuvings takes a minute less to clean but a minute more to assemble; and so forth -- and for twice the price I'm more than a little irked that there's no juice pitcher included because it means that if you don't have a bowl or glass that can fit under the juice nozzle, then you'll have to make another trip to the store.If you're a first time juicer and aren't sure how much you will use your new appliance, I would recommend starting with the Hamilton and seeing how you like it and whether the excessive clean-up process is a turn-off for you. But I would recommend buying the Kuvings over the Hamilton if:* You have strict weight-lifting limits. (I have a bad back.)* You intend to pulp a large volume and/or tough veggies. (Turbo speed!)* You need a less-noisy motor for medical reasons.Otherwise, I think both juicers are very good and do the job they're meant to do.~ Ana Mardoll


