1358294400
5.0
review/summary: Perfect for our needs and our health.review/text: I agree with the vast majority. Tasty rice, easy to use, compact to store and does not burn the bottom like some rice cookers do.One of the things you need to know is that this rice maker was designed and built with the metric system. This is the same weight and measure system used pretty much global wide. But not in the United States for home cooking. Your physician, hospitals, pharmacists and even your eye doctor use the metric system. In North America Canada and Mexico use it but home cooks need to understand that a "cup" of rice fits into a 180 ml cup. Not a 16 oz cup. This rice maker includes a standard rice cup or you can use 3/4 (6oz) is close enough. Many bakers like to weigh flour since it varies depending on the humidity. Same for rice. 3 rice cups will equal 500 grams. In Europe or Asia they call 500 grams a pound. In the US it is a bit more than 17 ounces. Hope that helps.Rice should be on every american diet. That's what all the TV doc's tell us and maybe your Dr. may have mentioned it as well. To give you the best bang for the buck, rice with a legume becomes a complete protein. I like to use frozen peas since they are always available. But beans, lintels or soy beans may work with your recipes.When you make a 3X180ml batch of rice the result will be about 8(US) cups of rice. Which is more than enough for us and our dogs love rice, so nothing goes to waste. Since rice in a 25# bag costs about 50 cents a pound, it's a thrifty and healthy way to add grain to your diet.The reason we chose the smallest of the Zojirushi is that not only makes the perfect meal size for us it's really energy efficient. We only pay about a nickle a KWH. But for those in an RV, easy to use on an inverter since it only uses 450W. So if you are a bit older and downsized or a collage student, might be a perfect choice. It also fits into a small spot in the cupboard.If you do add rice and legumes to your diet, you will save money on meat proteins. You will find satisfaction with less meat. Rather than a slab of 8/12/16 oz of red or white meat just buy the best and most tasty. No need for large amounts. You will find that meat may become a flavor rather than the main ingredient. Be sure to add mushrooms and vegetables to your rice mix if you would like.


