1349222400
5.0
review/summary: best cup of coffee ever!review/text: Picture this: ITS 6 AM..I wander out of bed, turn on my new Delonghi espresso machine sitting on the counter -that i bought from costco last week to replace the other one that lasted a year, maybe I burned out the motor ? I dont even know, but one morning, it flat out didnt work..But, this particular morning, I decided to try this 'bialetti thing' I had ordered based on the all the glowing reviews- I was tired of espresso machines that stop working on me..So, I open the box. what a pretty little pot-so cute!I read the one paragraph English directions (had to look hard..German,french,Italian..) I washed it out well (it was a bit oily in the base), filled it up with water and coffee for the first trial cup-that is meant to be thrown out. I put it on the stove top. I washed my floor while I waited (only a few minutes) .How it works: fill the bottom with water, middle with coffee. The water in the bottom comes up through the coffee in the middle to the top part. No motors, no filters...Well when it was ready-it looked and smelled so good that I just had to taste it before I threw it out.. I poured it in a cup-it was so dark, beautiful. I tasted it. I couldn't throw it out.This. is. the. best. coffee. I . have. ever. made.I have never sat down to my computer and purposely turned it on to go to amazon and write a review as I am now doing, as I sit in my pajamas, drink my first, and best, cup of coffee of the morning. Its that good.I have had 2 other espresso machines. The taste of the coffee from those machines is watery compared to this. I used the exact same grounds as I used yesterday in the DeLonghi espresso machine. When I pour the coffee from the DeLonghi into my coffee cup-you can see by the color its just not as dark as it should. This Bialetti coffee is what cappucino, coffee should be!NOW i understand the appeal of this machine. I agree with all the other reviews! I could add hot water for an americano-maybe I will after this! I did add a bit of foamy milk from my new capresso machine-now thats an awesome addition for latte lovers! enjoy! (btw- Im now buzzing, and I never get that from other coffee either-so beware. :)added note 3 days later:still loving this coffee.. and now my neighbor who tasted this coffee is returning her $600 espresso machine back to Bed Bath and Beyond and is ordering a Bialetti! Her frugal husband will be thanking me!I also have ordered one for my sister and mom for christmas gifts. Shhh don't tell.


