1344124800
5.0
review/summary: Score 1 for Silicone.review/text: THIS IS A RE-REVIEW: I HAVE A SOLUTION TO THE PROBLEM!! In just a few days after my initial review - my initial ecstatic review - my trays developed the "fug" or "funk" that some of the others have described. Whatever it was that flavored my ice cubes - they started tasting like a freezer condenser smells. So I ordered another round of these trays and another LARGE square cube tray - and added the spheres while I was at it - why not? The basic problem is that silicone is not a suitable substance for use in the freezer as it absorbs everything that comes into contact with it - whether from dishwashing or just sitting in the freezer waiting to freeze - the trays are magnets for lots of stinky stuff. Stinky stuff that will end up in your ice cubes. I detailed the solution to the first problem below: NEVER WASH YOUR ICE CUBE TRAYS WITH DETERGENTS - NEVER - WHETHER YOU WASH YOUR DISHES BY HAND OR IN THE DISHWASHER. A RINSE WITH HOT WATER SHOULD BE ALL THAT IS REQUIRED AND THAT ONLY FROM TIME TO TIME. (The manufacturers recommend washing the trays in a diluted solution of vinegar and water periodically. I am going to try that with my former set of trays but I don't "relish" vinegar-scented ice cubes!) Second: I use triple-filtered water in these trays. Not the stuff directly from the tap. Or if you want ice cubes that are clear you should use water that has been boiled and then allowed to cool. Third and this was my partners innovation: After they are filled, I am now placing the filled ice cube trays in freezer bags and then sealing them so the trays and iced cubes will not be exposed to the freezer at all - ever - during the freezing process. And, as I also described below, I store the finished frozen ice cubes in a sealed disposable freezer keeper so - again - they do not have the opportunity to absord "stuff" that will make them smell and taste nasty . This may seem like more trouble than they are worth but these cubes really are the PERFECT size and I feel they warrant all the attention! (What an innovative solution JP! Thanks for the suggestion.)MY ORIGINAL REVIEW: I usually don't care for silicone especially in bakeware. But these ice cube trays are just the ticket and they live up to their name = they make perfectly sized ice cubes. Even the silicone is a bit easier to use here and the ice cubes pop out effectively. Perhaps because the cube trays are really not that big - although 2 trays just fill a large Gladware container perfectly and you can store your ice cubes in an airtight environment. Even after many rounds of ice cube making the trays never lose their shape. I, too, do not understand the quibbles with these trays. They, themselves, do not impart any smell at all and lend no scent to the ice cubes either. I keep my freezer impeccably clean and I have a box of baking soda in the freezer as well as the refrigerator - so maybe that's the difference. Also, I never wash silicone in detergent as that will be absorbed by the trays and your ice cubes will be perfumed and make your cubes taste like Dawn or Ivory or Joy or whatever you use. Not good. Again, it's the size that is the innovation here and that is the aspect of the cubes that pleases me most.


