1348531200
2.0
review/summary: Badly designedreview/text: I love my Zojirushi vacuum-bottle thermos, so I thought they'd make a good coffee maker. Despite being somewhat on the pricey side, this coffee maker was quite disappointing.The biggest problem I have is that the Thermal Carafe is not glass but stainless steel, and just doesn't keep the coffee very warm for long. I live near Denver at 5500 feet, and water boils at a lower temperature up here, and it shows up in that a lot of coffee makers make luke-warm coffee. Even the fancy Scandinavian ones. The coffee is pretty hot at first, but after 15 minutes it's noticeably luke-warm. In the glass vacuum bottle carafe, it's good for several hours, but that doesn't work with this coffee maker. But I stuck with it because the timer is handy, and it makes more coffee than my alternate, hand-brew / cone filter set up.The cone is designed so that a standard #4 filter (Melitta, for instance) is just a bit too tall, and you need to fold the top over to get the water dispensing arm across. The arm is supposed to move as you close the lid, like some other coffee makers, but it spills coffee since the cone isn't deep enough for the paper filter. Another quarter inch would have done it.Also, the opening and closing of the bottle is awkward -- the bottle has a brew-through lid, but you can't pour coffee out until you twist it 180 degrees. It tends to stick pretty tightly after a new round of coffee is made. Yet, despite this awkward opening ,there's a hole in the lid (where the coffee goes in) that doesn't close, and lets heat out. You're supposed to put a separate lid on, which can only be done after brewing, and there's no place to stow this lid as part of the coffee maker, so it has to go on a shelf or in a drawer somewhere you can find it after brewing the coffee. Bad design, especially compared to Zojirushi's elegant glass vacuum bottles with a simple thumb switch to go between Open and Closed.Now, after having it for six months, it suddenly stopped heating the water. There's nothing inside that's user serviceable, according to the manual, and having bought it at a local coffee shop rather than through Amazon, I seem to have lost my dated receipt, so I can't return it. Ah well, another lesson learned. A better coffee maker is: an electric tea kettle, melitta cone, and a Zojirushi glass vacuum carafe.


