1355356800
4.0
review/summary: A decent mug WARMER, not a hot platereview/text: Those who like your coffee or tea HOT and think this product will keep it hot, please don't buy this. What you're looking for is a mini hot plate, not a mug warmer. This product does what it says it would do, it'll keep a mug and it's contents WARM, not hot.I originally bought this to melt my pillar candles in the glass jars. It does but it took about 6 hours to melt a 21oz candle and be able to let off a scent without burning the wick. If you're buying this product for the same purpose, I suggest to boil some water and and melt the candle prior to putting it on the warmer as it will speed up the process and save electricity. It might be better to use a shorter candle as well so it doesn't take too long to melt.As a beverage warmer, it is correct to say the more surface area the mug has contact on the warmer, the warmer it will keep the beverage. If your mug has a "foot", it would be tepid warm at best. If it's flat, and I mean completely flat and touching the warmer, then it'll keep warm. The material matters as well. I haven't tried a lot of different ones yet, but just applying chemistry you should know that some objects have a higher specific heat capacity than others. The lower specific heat, the easier it is to heat up.Now, here comes some science for those who are interested...Specific heat capacity of:Ceramic ~1090 J/kgKAluminum ~900 J/kgKGlass ~840 J/kgKCopper ~390 J/kgKGold ~130 J/kgKAssuming most people don't drink out of copper or gold cups, I'll compare the 2 common ones, glass and ceramic. In theory, if you have a glass cup it will be a bit warmer to touch (as long as there's a heat source) than the ceramic cup. But once you take the cup off of the warmer, the glass cup would cool faster than the ceramic mug because glass can't retain heat as well as ceramic. Coffee and tea are close to liquid water so the specific heat is 4184 J/kgK. It can retain heat but it would take a lot of energy to heat it back up. If you want to heat it up, it may take hours on this warmer. I'm just taking a scientific guess based on what I know from chemistry. If it's wrong, please feel free to leave a comment and I'll edit as needed. =)


