1359590400
5.0
review/summary: 5 star on juice qualityreview/text: Bought this juicer 3 months ago. I am using it every day. I did a lot of searching to buy the right kind of juicer and finaly decided for Breville 800. I read a lot of reviews about it and about other juicers. Based on what I read and what I experice every day I need to make few comments:1. When you choose a juicer think of what you are interested the most? for me: quality of juice and not so much user friendly, cleaning and all the others on the same line. A lot of juicers are warming up the liquid produced which distroy the quality of the juice. This one doesn't! Plus the taste is so fresh and pure. Therefore the no. 1 condition - QUALITY of the juice - for me got 5 stars.2. Quantity - depends on what you juice. Hard fruits and vegetables, the pulp is almost dry. The soft produce are a bit moist but not at all at the point that one might think, if I squeeze more this residue I get more drops of juice. Also, based on what the other people review (the 2 and 1 stars) who complained that they went and spent a lot of money on produce and got nothing out of it, I would say: you have to know to do proper juice combination. No matter what I juice, I always mix either an orange or an apple with the rest of it. For instance if I want mostly carrot juice, I would peel 2-3 long carrots + 1 orange, or + 1 apple and get a full big glass of juice. Enough for one person. So be creative with your combination and always pick something with high contend of water (cucumber, apple, orange, kiwi, etc) and something dry.So 5 stars for Quantity as well.3. User friendly. Well here I have to divide this chapter in two parts. Part 1. User friendly from putting it together, yes, 5 stars. Part 2, User friendly for cleaning point of view? Well, here I have to give only 3 stars. Yes, it has a bit more cleaning parts that I would want to clean (7 at the most). Some of the people reviews complained about the juice collector container that it turns pale after few cleanings. Mine didn't. I think because I wash everything by hand. I avoid washing plastic in dish washer due to high temp. If you do need to wash it in the dish washer I would put it on the top. I rinse most of my parts by hand. So everything looks like new after day by day use. I also think this juicer is not meant to be for a person who is always in the hurry. I actually make my juice hour as a ritual. I TAKE TIME! In the way you have to take time anyway to drink a home made juice. You have to let the body absorb every bit of it and not drink it as water. Therefore even if it might be taking longer time to clean the whole thing, I still like it because I try to not do a juice if I have only 5 min to do it, so what I said above really don't bother me that much. I think the worst piece of the juicer is the fine mesh. You have to clean it RIGHT AWAY since it is such a fine net and I am always afraid the stuff will dry out inside of the net tiny holes and never be able to get them out. Another bad part about cleaning by hand, you have to be careful since few of the parts are super sharp.4. Time to make the juice. I give 5 stars. Amazingly fast! Few seconds.Helps a lot if you have everything clean or peeled before you start turning it on.5. Noise. I give 5 stars. Because it is so fast, I don't have the time to think if it is loud or not. I really don't think is louder than a hand mixer.In conclusions, beside the cleaning part, I LOVE my juicer! I super enjoy every evening drinking my dinner up and can't wait every day to use it! Worth the money!


