1346112000
5.0
review/summary: Best Brewing Machine On The Market! :Dreview/text: I love this machine! You can brew so many different things with just this one machine! It can do hot gourmet coffee, iced coffee, hot gourmet tea, iced tea, hot gourmet coco, iced coco, any kind of variety of hot or iced Keurig K-Cups, and it can also brew all of those things non-gourmet as well. And if you buy the little eko-brew filtration cup that is sold separately from this machine for an extra few dollars you can brew any kind of gourmet or regular ground coffee, tea, or coco as well! So say you're a Folger's person. You just simply put a tablespoon of Folger's ground coffee in the little eko-brew filtration cup, and pop it in the Keurig B60 Special Edition Brewer and in just seconds you're off to the races! I personally prefer LaVaZzA Ground Coffee. It's Italy's favorite ground coffee. It's some really good stuff. You can buy it right here on Amazon for a very reasonable price. It has 3 different settings on the machine for small, medium, and large brews. So you have your choice of how much you want to brew and drink. It also has a large water capacity..12 extra ounces for free. (That's why this machine is so special) And it even comes with a 12 pack variety of K-Cups for you to try out to see which is your favorite kind so that you can then purchase a specific kind in the future based on your own taste. And if you register this machine at Keurig you'll receive even more K-Cups for FREE! In addition you will then also receive a 10% discount on all there K-Cups you buy as well. I bought the 2-pack of mouth-blown 8.8oz Pavina Bodum glasses to go with this machine because I prefer the small brew myself. It brews and automatically shuts off at just the right time to fill the cups. And the cool thing about those particular glasses is that it doesn't burn your hands after the brew. So you can handle them right after the machine is finished brewing without burning your hands which I think is really awesome. But yes, this machine can do very wondrous and magical thing for your daily brewing needs. If you make a large brew..it can keep you wired for days..which is great for me..because I like making music and playing electric guitar..which is why I got this machine to begin with..because it really helps motivate me by stimulating my brain cells with coffee and caffeine..which in return helps me play guitar more quickly and effectively. So if you're anything like me..or if you're a musician or have a busy daily lifestyle..then I highly recommend this Keurig B60 Special Edition machine!


