1344643200
3.0
review/summary: Good as carpet cleaner but lousy attachmentsreview/text: From all the favorable reviews, we purchased this with the hopes of using it to both clean carpets and upholstery. I paid particular attention to the top reviewer's comments about how to assemble properly to avoid leakage. I think we assembled it okay, but did notice that it did leak if we released the upright portion of the steamvac to rest back on the floor in order to reach the dirty water container, IF we left the clean water container still attached in the unit. Then there was water everywhere! I learned to take the clean water container off before releasing the upright to access the dirty water container (in order to clean it out or attach the hose).So, no chronic leakage problems with the main floor cleaning vac as others have reported, but we did have a significant leakage problem with the attachments. I wanted to clean my fabric covered sofa, so was eager to try these fancy dancy add-ons. Problem is that they leak like crazy! There's a little nozzle to push at the end of the hose behind the brush attachments when you want to squirt soapy water onto the furniture. First, this nozzle is badly positioned/designed so that water shoots out from behind the brush unit and sprays everywhere and not exactly where you might want it! Second, it drips water even when the nozzle is not pressed down. Very disappointing. Also, the brush rotates, but not very powerfully and I don't see any huge advantage to using these attachments over getting yourself a soapy scrub brush in one hand and a dry rag in the other to clean your upholstery. It's a lot of work to attach everything, detach, and clean - that, along with the leakage, just doesn't make it worth it.I'm also disappointed at the false advertising on the front of the steam vac that reads "Heated Clean" which is clearly not true unless you put your own heated water into the unit. Shame, Hoover!Will we return the unit because of this attachment malfunction? Unclear, as the same Hoover unit without the attachment wands is just $10 less, so it seems too much effort to return and reorder through the local store. (I have to say that I think a purchase like this should be made through a store locally where you can return it without shipping charges if you're not happy.) So we may end up keeping it without much enthusiasm if we feel we have enough of a use for it...


