1351555200
5.0
review/summary: Excellent mixer, excellent warranty servicereview/text: I used this mixer (KP26M1PGC) about twice a week for 10 months, and loved it, until it walked off the counter after being left alone with a 90% hydration pizza dough for 5 minutes. It went over with a 4-cup pyrex measuring cup, which broke and threw water everywhere. It yanked the ground pin off the its power plug and crashed to the floor on its poor head.After cleanup, I plugged it in and ran it for a few seconds, to see how it fared. I couldn't be sure; it may have been a little louder, a little grindier, but maybe that was paranoia. The center post turned a little when I moved it by hand, but then I don't know how much give it had to feel comfortable giving it a good burn-in test with a damaged plug. KitchenAid said I shouldn't have left it on its lonesome for so long - technically, I suppose they could've gotten out of a warranty replacement - but she said they'd send me a replacement as a good will gesture. They're sending me the same color, and all we have to do is put mine in the same pre-paid box and call FedEx to come pick it up. So needless to say, I'm very impressed with their warranty / customer service.They didn't have aKP26M1PGCin stock, so they're sending theKP26M1XGC, which she said is equivalent. I haven't yet been able to determine what the difference is. They certainly seem functionally equivalent. I know there was an issue with the plastic vs. metal motor housing, and wonder if it's a factor.I feel I've given short-shrift to the mixer itself. Did I mention I absolutely loved it for 10 months? I made cake, cookies, pizza and bread. Mostly pizza. I've wanted one for 35 years, and it does not disappoint.[Update] The replacement arrived in 2 days. The two mixers seemed completely equivalent. They looked the same, both have a metal motor housing, and they weighed the same. They sounded the same and the shaft moved by about the same amount, so I think the one that fell took it very well. All we had to do was box up the other one and call FedEx to pick it up, and KitchenAid paid for shipping. The new one came with a rubber handle on the elevation lever, and it came with a the clear plastic ingredient spout, which are both nice additions. I couldn't be happier.


