1350777600
3.0
review/summary: Cleans good, not good for large homesreview/text: As others have said, this cleans well but the solution and recovery tanks are way too small. This is perfect for you 85 year old mother who can't lift heavy tanks, but its a real time killer when you are trying to knock out a few rooms. Also poor design for use in stairs, unit will not sit on standard stairs without falling over and hose is too short to park unit on top/bottom or stair landing. The one gallon solution tank was done after just 4 stairs (normal dirty). I do like that you can mix your own carpet cleaning solution in the one gallon tanks vs. the Bessel machines which you load 100 percent solution in their tank and the machine mixes the water in the spray. I use commercial carpet cleaning solutions which is about .85 cents per gallon of solution vs. hovers at $2.00 plus per gallon.I also don't like the fact that once you attach the stair tool and hose you can't use the machine as a floor machine, the Bessel machines (which are junk btw), have a better design you just turn the selector switch from stair tool to floor, no disassembly of the unit required.All said If your doing flat areas and do not mind changing the solution tank and dirty water collection tank every few minutes, then this cleans well and does not over wet the carpet like most home machines.I also noticed that the machine leaks solution from the floor machine when using the stair tool, I could not find anything installed wrong so not sure what the issue is. Also beware that you have to lay the handle back to remove the dirty water tank and you must take the solution tank off first, otherwise it leaks all over the place when the handle is flat on the ground.Would I recommend, maybe as it cleans well but seems to have lots of design flaws but what do you expect for this price range. Do yourself a favor and find your local janitorial supply company and buy commercial concentrate, it's much better stuff and half the price of the Hoover consumer carpet solutions.


