1359936000
3.0
review/summary: I have only found 2 K-cups that has an okay flavor in this machinereview/text: The coffee is weak, not hot enough and most importantly lacking the full flavor that I know is in these k-cups (tried in other machines) in my opinion. I like to make a strong cup of coffee and add a flavored creamer like hazlenut. I have tried about 15 different types of k-cups trying to find a cup with good coffee flavor. I use the small setting to get the strongest coffee. The only two I like are Starbuck's Medium Pike Place and the Verona. I don't like them enough to be truly satisfied. When I used my friend's Cuisinart machine with her K-cups, the flavor of ALL of the ones I thought were bad were really tasty! It's this machine! What is wrong with it? I don't know. I raised the temperature in case it wasn't hot enough and I tried different types of creamers. This is a 3-star machine for me. I will be replacing it with something soon--probably the Cuisinart. I will do some research.EDIT: I am still not giving this 4 stars but I would like to say that by the time I wrote this review, my machine's needles had gotten clogged making the best of the coffee cups I'd found taste like swill! I will agree that customer service is stellar! When I told her my taste, she asked if I had tried the Folger's Dark Silk. Will do. She also said I would get a great discount if I wanted to purchase this same machine as an existing customer with a registered machine for 99 bucks, but I don't know if I do want the same one. I don't think so. I want an upgrade next time. She inspired me to buy the Keurig Vue next. Maaaaaybe. Ha ha.I will say that Keurig's website is a delight and the instruction videos for cleaning are magnificent and so detailed. However, cleaning it the way they suggested yielded no results for me and my tasteless swill maker here so I tried something unconventional. Ya'll ready for dis??? I am pretty thoughtful, so I had the brilliant idea of using my waterpik to clean the clogged needles. After descaling the machine with straight white vinegar, waiting for 4 hours and running cycle after cycle of plain water and after cleaning the needles with a paper clip, it had no effect!!! I brought in my waterpik from my bathroom--you know, the device you use to water floss your teeth? I put in hot HOT water and made a mess out of my kitchen ha ha! I unplugged my Keurig. I squirted the highest powered stream of hot water into the needle holes that puncture the kcup and grounds poured out into the cup below. It worked! I am going to do this once a month--maybe next time in the bathtub. I can live with this. It's still 3 stars. All of the flavors should taste good. They taste good in other machines so it's only fair.


