1348704000
5.0
review/summary: Five STARS! The Mercedes Benz of Juicers!review/text: After much research online, seeing the glowing reviews for this model, and reading several reviews by restaurant owners who use it in their businesses, I decided to purchase this one. Other juicers are large, and certain juicers are quite expensive.I am so happy I bought this model! I've had mine for about four months now. It is easier to use than most others out there, and is much easier to clean than any of the others I've seen. There is a whole lot of thought that went into the design of this machine and it shows. And, I feel the price is very reasonable for the quality and careful design.If you don't get the multi-speed you'll wish you had. I've seen other reviewers say that and it's true. Juicing is a breeze and it extracts all the juice from the produce. The large chute accepts larger fruit and veggies without as much cutting. You'll have the most delicious and healthy juice in just minutes. I really feel it is a must for a healthy kitchen. If you've never juiced before, you won't believe the difference it can make in your body if you make good choices.One of the greatest features is how easy it is to clean. After juicing, I drink my juice immediately, rinse all the parts in hot water, then either stick them in the dishwasher, or I hand wash in hot soapy water. The parts all wash easily and quickly and all still look like new. Of course, the mesh juice strainer takes a few minutes, but the perfectly designed brush that is included, makes quick work of the the debris. Just scrub it with the brush in circles around the outside then the inside under hot running water and then it is ready to wash. One note though, the plunger is not completely sealed (at least mine wasn't) and it ended up with water inside it after putting it in the dishwasher. So, I just wash it by hand.A note on carrot juice: Some folks say their juicers are stained after juicing carrots. I did my normal cleaning routine, and there was some residue on the clear plastic parts. But, I noticed quite by accident that using a slightly moist paper towel easily removed the rest of the residue. It didn't come off with a sponge in soapy water, but after washing, completely drying, then using the moist (not wet: it doesn't work for some reason) paper towel it all came off and I've never had the problem again.For new users, don't miss this important note: You must dispose of the pulp (I suggest in your compost pile. It will do wonders for your gardens.) and not pour/wash it down the drain. It will plug your pipes and cost a chunk of cash to have a plumber come out and clear the drains. I knew someone who wouldn't listen and then had to pay a plumber to come clear her drains of all the pulp.The icing on the cake is how unbelievably handsome this machine is. I keep it on the counter and use it daily. You will not regret this purchase. Five stars all the way.


