1347580800
3.0
review/summary: I have had to change my review from 5 stars to 3 starsreview/text: My original review of this item (which is reproduced in the middle of this current review) after about a month of using it was 5 stars, but I had to downgrade my rating to 3 stars.The day after I wrote my original review of the Whirley-Pop, I made a batch of kettlecorn in it as usual, then someone else washed the pan and put it away in the cabinet. This was the first time that someone other than myself had washed it... I don't know if this fact had anything to do with what happened subsequently, or not.The next time I used the popper, the corn took forever to pop, only half the kernels popped at all, and the ones on the bottom ended up burning in the pan. I was so surprised with this result because the popper and the same recipe/same ingredients had worked perfectly for me numerous times before. When I emptied the burned corn out and took off the lid to see what was wrong, I noticed that the wire paddle things that sweep along the bottom of the pan were misaligned and were bent incorrectly. They had even scratched a deep groove in the bottom of the pan. I could not coax them back to the original shape. The best I could do was to make one side lie relatively flat while the other one hovered too far off the pan to do any good at all. The contraption was suddenly unusable after only a month - a shame.The person who had washed it and put it away is not a careless person, but I have a feeling that the W-P lid was probably plunged into a sink of soapy water with the rest of the dinner dishes, washed expediently, and then plopped wire-side down onto the dish drying rack amongst the other dishes; whereas I would always wash the popper separately and keep the paddle-wires from any external contacts or gravity pressure.I would expect that most people would assume that they could handle the W-P as they would any other general kitchen item, but the lid/paddle unit IS awkward, and probably will hold up much better with some coddling.Indeed, the advice by the Whirley-Pop people that you don't need to wash the popper after popping corn in it, but can just wipe it with a paper towel and put it away (note that this advice applies after poppping a normal batch of popcorn with salt and oil, NOT after making sugary kettlecorn, when they say it ought to be washed) probably has more than one reason behind it -- to 'season' the pan, to save the owner time, AND to lessen the danger of inadvertently harming the paddle-wires while washing them.==================================================My original review of the Whirley-Pop: 5 starsI bought this about a month ago. So far, it has surpassed my expectations.I bought it for a family member who developed a hankering for "kettle corn" this summer and was regularly spending 3.99 at the supermarket for a medium-sized bag of it. Popcorn Indiana Kettlecorn Popcorn - 14 oz - CASE PACK OF 4 It's a nice product, but I knew there must be a way to make kettle corn inexpensively at home.After searching the internet and trying 3 different stove-top kettle corn recipes (for making it in a regular saucepan), I decided special equipment was required. I knew Amazon would show me the way, and here I discovered the Whirley-Pop and similar products.There are a few competitor listings, and they differ slightly in terms of type of metal, type of gears, price, warranty, weight, etc. After reading a zillion reviews, I decided on this listing, and I'm glad I did.You can read most of the pertinent information in the "most helpful" reviews of the various listings, so I won't repeat everything, but I'll note a few things:-Of the various listings for a Whirley-Pop of this type (this type of metal, this type of gears), this one was the best deal, at least when I bought mine. There are a handful of listings that are priced slightly higher which offer a few pre-made popcorn packs, free cardboard containers, and so on, but those extra bits and bobs don't add a whole lot of value to the pan (in my opinion). This pan in this listing came with one pre-made popcorn pack ("movie theater style" with a flavor packet full of artificial flavorings and stuff, which I try to avoid, so I didn't use it) and the one pack is enough to give it a try -- if you want more of these packs, I think they are pretty cheap to order directly from the company that makes the Whirley-Pop, 2 for 2.50 or something like that -- so don't pay an extra 5.00 here just to get a couple of those packs with the pan (in my opinion). There was one W-P pan like this, but with a red base, that was a couple of dollars cheaper than this one, and I was interested in it because I have a lot of red kitchenware already, but some reviewers said that the red enamel chipped off quickly and they wished they had bought a plain-metal one, so that's probably why it's priced a bit less.-Some people mentioned in reviews that the W-P has a 25 year warranty, but that amazing guarantee is only on some parts of the pan. Other parts of the W-P have just a 90-day warranty. You can read up on this on the manufacturer's website.-There is a helpful YouTube video made by the W-P company about how to pop corn in a W-P. It's about 7 minutes long and I got a couple of good tips from it, even after reading the brief instruction pamphlet that came with the pan.-The plastic gears seem to work just fine for me. I always pop a full pan-ful of corn (the recommended 1/2 cup of kernels) and twirl the handle like mad for 10 minutes. Everything seems sound with the pan, even though parts of it do feel a bit flimsy, especially when washing it. With my pan, nothing had to be adjusted or jiggled in order for it to work after taking it out of the box, like some reviewers have reported. I do tend to be quite careful with belongings, but I can't see this product wearing out for a few years, at least.-Some people have noted that they didn't much like the recipes that came with the pan, and I am not sure I even read them very closely. I searched on the internet for a kettle corn recipe for the W-P, and have tweaked it since then to my taste. I've now made it about 15 times. Here it is:Kettle Corn in the Whirley-PopPut in cold pan:1/2 cup popcorn (supermarket own brand)scant 1/2 teaspoon salt (not quite full to the top of the measuring spoon)3 and 1/2 tablespoons sugar (use 3 if you like more of a balance between sweet and salty, use 4 or even 5 tablespoons if you prefer things on the sweet side)2 tablespoons of a good coconut oil (see below for my recommendation)Place pan on gas burner, turn flame to halfway between low and medium, begin twirling handle right away (so sugar doesn't sit and burn in the bottom of the pan), twirl for about 7 minutes with nothing happening, shake pan vigorously in a forwards and back motion about once in every 20 twirls of handle (this is important to redistribute the contents of the pan back to the middle from the sides), then corn will pop forcefully for about 2 minutes, and it's done in a flash, hardly any stragglers will be popping away after the vast majority have exploded, take off heat immediately, keep stirring handle, then immediately pour it into a large bowl. Let cool for a minute, then stir the popcorn in the bowl with a long-handled spoon so the slightly-sticky kernels don't form their own baseball-sized popcorn balls as they cool (which doesn't harm anything, but it's easier to eat if the kernels are separated).There are honestly about 5 or fewer unpopped kernels out of the whole 8 cups or whatever comes out of the pan. Even with the sugar in the recipe, the pan itself doesn't get singed, doesn't have anything burned on it - nothing, just shiny loveliness on the inside. While the W-P people say not to wash the pan after you make normal popcorn (just wipe it with a paper towel), it is recommended to wash the pan after doing kettle corn because of the sugar in the recipe, of course.Quick, easy, inexpensive, and "moreish"!===As far as coconut oil goes, it can usually be found in a typical supermarket or walmart in the cooking oil section (there might be one brand, on the top shelf, about 7 dollars, and not very good quality) and also in the pharmacy and/or nutritional supplements section (it can be found nestling amongst the Vitamin C and Zinc and so on), for usually about 10 to 14 dollars. It can be found in health food stores, of course, and more "with-it" supermarkets like Whole Foods. It can be ordered from vitamin companies online like Swanson Vitamins, and it can be ordered from places like Amazon. You can also find bottles of specialist "popcorn oil" blends which are in the supermarket next to the raw popcorn, but why not just use plain coconut oil, which I think has a lovely taste, and is so healthy, and is very versatile with many uses in the home (cooking, health, personal care, etc.)I like Nature's Way Organic Extra Virgin Coconut Oil, which has a great review score here on Amazon, and is only around eight-fifty at the moment here. (I saw this very product in my local supermarket earlier tonight for fourteen dollars. The container was in the vitamin supplements section at that supermarket.)Nature's Way Organic Extra Virgin Coconut Oil, 16 Ounceend of original review=======================================================Looking for a substitute:After the Whirley-Pop broke, I looked for an aluminum popper that had a more sturdy paddle.The fifty dollar "Amish-inspired" (but made in China) pan on here (I think it's called the Lindy) is made of stainless steel (which doesn't conduct heat as well as aluminum, so I'd prefer an aluminum one), has metal gears (more sturdy than the W-P's plastic ones), and has a substantial paddle -- but apparently the paddle is an inch too short on either side, by what some reviewers have written. This can result in kernels piling up along the sides of the pan and burning due to lack of movement.The Back-to-Basics (parent brand is West Bend) popper that some reviewers have mentioned here on Amazon has about 120 reviews, but it seems to have been discontinued some time ago and is now being offered by a third party for an extortionate price here, and the older version at least seems to have been made of stainless steel, with metal gears, and no description or photo of the internal paddle. I did find used versions of this one being sold on a popular auction site and I checked out the listing photos, and the paddle seems to be about half an inch high and more sturdy than the little wires of the W-P. However, like the Lindy, its paddle seems to be about an inch shy of the pan on either side. (On the official West Bend product website, in the Back-to-Basics brand area, the entry for this popper says that it is out of stock.)Even though they don't mention it on their official product website, I noticed on Amazon that West Bend has an aluminum popper (under the brand of West Bend) listed for twenty-something, with just a few reviews, and no description or photo of what shape the internal paddle has. It has metal gears, and the shape of the lid is the same as the Back-to-Basics popper, so I assumed that the internal paddle was also the same (thicker and less delicate than the W-P's), and decided to take a chance and order it.Unfortunately, the West Bend was a major disappointment and I sent it back the day I received it. The paddle, which IS more substantial and sturdy than the W-P's, did not reach anywhere near the bottom of the pan. It twirled over the corn kernels, not touching them at all. There were no adjustments that could be made to the lid or pan so that the paddle would touch the kernels.The branded display box it came in was also beat up and torn up all over, even though this was a direct order from Amazon. It didn't appear to be a new product by West Bend, but perhaps a really old product (maybe a back-of-the-warehouse kind of thing, after they had shifted all their Back-to-Basics branded poppers, which would explain why West Bend's website doesn't include it in their product offerings).===One would think it would be pretty simple for a manufacturer to produce a corn popper with metal gears, an aluminum pan, and a fantastic, sturdy internal paddle that fit the pan well and moved all the kernels as it twirled around.I have looked on the internet, at different retailers, even at Amish stores. It seems that Amazon is offering every type of stovetop popper in the US market (there are only about 4). Basically it's the W-P (and seemingly-generic ones that look EXACTLY like the Whirley-Pop), the Lindy, or the Back-to-Basics/West Bend. (Or a sort of homemade-looking, extra-deep one that I'm not too sure about.)For us, the West Bend is out because the paddle wasn't capable of doing its job at all (at least on the model I received, and I suspect that if I had gotten an exact replacement, it would have been similar and a waste of time).The Lindy is out because many reviewers report that poppers made of stainless steel aren't nearly as good as poppers made of aluminum, because its paddle looks strikingly like West Bend's wholly-inadequate one and there are complaints that it leaves a lot of kernels stationary in the pan, and because it costs 2.5 times more than the Whirley-Pop (at the present time when the W-P is below twenty).Therefore, the W-P seems to be the best, even though it's a bit rickety and delicate. So, sadder and wiser, we are going to order another Whirley-Pop and hope it lasts longer than 1 month.Maybe one day the Whirley-Pop people will improve the robustness of their paddle and return to using metal gears. I'm sure that many customers would be happy to pay 5 more dollars (or whatever) for a sturdier, higher-quality aluminum popper.======================A few days later...Just a note on the second W-P that we got from here:Not sure if it's from a different production run, but the plastic gears seem to be a different color (tan instead of the cream of earlier).The right-hand (when holding it by the handle) part of the lid that opens has a much better latch on it, which always stays shut -- while the same latch on our first W-P would often come loose even after trying to bend it so it would stay shut, and it would always flop open when we were emptying the finished corn into a bowl. (Other reviewers have complained about that too.)The paddle-wires seem to be of a slightly different shape in the second W-P (but maybe they aren't really, and my thinking so is just a sign that I've become a bit too obsessed with this corn-popping business of late!) They sweep around the bottom of the pan well, but do leave about a 1/2-inch gap at the edges of the pan where the kernels will congregate, so after every ten-to-twenty twirls of the paddle, I shake the pan back and forth to distribute those kernels into the center of the pan again.I don't know why, but it just seems that the construction of the second W-P is a bit better overall than that of the first one we got.The second one makes kettlecorn as well as the first W-P did.To ensure longevity of the device, I have been "voted" by the household as the only person who is allowed to operate and wash the W-P, which isn't exactly what I envisioned when I first got it (since I am not the member of the household who is kettlecorn-crazy), but it's okay. :-)


