1360195200
5.0
review/summary: So far, so good - we absolutely LOVE itreview/text: I purchased this for my husband in November 2012, despite some negative reviews I had read about it. DH had been talking about getting one (despite us already having an expensive grind-and-brew system).We use it primarily in the evening, when we don't want to go to the hassle of grinding and brewing a new pot of coffee. It's quick and convenient for a single cup.It does, however, have a fairly large footprint for a machine designed to make one cup at a time. We had to reorganize our counter a bit to fit it in.At the time of purchase, I also purchased the filter kit. After reading various reviews, many recommended it, and its a shame Keurig doesn't include it with the coffee maker. It was an easy install, and the kit comes with two filters. Recommended change out is every two months. At the time we change the filter, we also run white distilled vinegar through the unit as well, followed by plain cold water. We run the vinegar with the filter unit removed from the coffee maker, and replace the filter unit before running cold water through. Replacement filters currently run about $24 for 6. Seems pricey, but six will last a year, and if it lengthens the life of the unit, we feel its money well spent.A second accessory we purchased was a small basket to use our own pre-ground coffee, but at this time have not had the opportunity to use it. These small baskets generally run less than $2.50.The prevalence of the K-cups allows for relatively inexpensive and a wide variety of choice in coffees. Green Mountain is by far our favorite - I can't remember ever having a smoother cup of coffee. There are also teas, as well as hot chocolate, K-cups. You can get them almost anywhere, now, including most local grocery stores.Here at the 3-month mark, we have had no problems whatsoever with the unit and are very pleased with it. I will post updates regularly and of course, if we ever have a problem, y'all be the first to know!


