1352332800
3.0
review/summary: Good heater.. it does not shut off if it's knocked over! Dangerousreview/text: I had purchased this previous version of this heater approximately 4 years ago. It started malfunctioning about a year ago and it finally died a week ago. I ordered the same heater and I'm now concerned that it is dangerous. It claims to have automatic shut off; however I just accidentally knocked it over.. and watched and waited. It didn't shut off. I didn't wait for an extremely long time (approximately 15 seconds.. heater pointing down;) however it seems to be defective. If not, the description of automatic shut off is inaccurate.. and a DANGEROUS claim.The plug also gets extremely hot, which concerns me. The heater also sometimes shuts off when oscillating (when no temperature or timer has been set to cause it to do so.) Again, my heater may be defective.The appearance has changed from the previous version and I don't really like it. The previous version was bronze.. no pattern/finish. This heater has a "crackled finish" which is very subtle in the photo on Amazon but the pattern is very obvious and not subtle; as it appears in the photo. I think it looks cheap and definitely not as attractive as the previous model. The primary reason I purchased this heater was for aesthetic reasons, along with the fact that my last Lasko Designer Series Ceramic Heater lasted for almost 4 years. By the way, my last heater lasted that long, but with minimal use.. mostly in the morning and on really cold days. I live in coastal San Diego.. so we really do not need to use heaters very often.The good news with this version of the heater is there's a remote.. but because of safety concerns, I don't use the remote, because I ultimately unplug the unit at night.It's a decent heater, but I really wanted a heater with automatic shut off if knocked over. I'm very concerned that this heater doesn't shut off; as described and that's a big issue for me. I never write reviews, but when safety is concerned, I felt compelled to share my experience.


