1356393600
5.0
review/summary: Best Buy-Delicious coffee and my unique solution to some of the most common complaintsreview/text: I will address some of the few annoying negative features and some creative And unique ways I have discovered of dealing with them on the Quisinart DCC-1200 Brew Central Coffee Maker. No one has suggested my remedy yet! There are enough ample favorable reviews to read to bolster my feeling that this is by far the best coffee maker on the market in terms of quality, attractiveness, price and convenience.Probably the most common complaint is the difficulty of filling the water reservoir. I think this is a valid complaint and obvious flaw with the product. However, with a little ingenuity and creativity one can remedy this problem easily and completely! I use a tiny flashlight that I keep near the coffee maker all the time. It is called a Mini Maglight and takes up hardly any room at all. You can easily get exact measurements, which to a perfectionist like myself, is very important.Some users complained that the coffee was too weak. My suggestion is to use heaping levels of the measuring cup instead of putting an extra measuring cup in. i foung that much more consistent. Interestingly, I have found that if you are making 10-12 cups, for some reason you are better off using flat measuring cups instead of heaping for that &#34;perfectly tasting&#34; brewed cup of coffee! It may have to do with the fact that the coffee gets intrinsically stronger with the more cups you use.Be careful if you Are having a party with a lot of people and need to brew a second carafe immediately after the first. I have burnt my hand on more than one occasion with the steam coming up as I am pouring in a second carafe of cold water to brew. Remember to shut off the machine for 30 seconds before brewing a second carafe.The last comment refers to the frequent complaints of the &#34;early death&#34; of this model. That may be true but many owners have had this model successfully for many years. In any event Cuisinart is an honest and receptive company that will quickly replace any defective model in a timely fashion.In brief I recommend this product highly and would have no other. As matter of fact we are in the process of buying a new one.


