1345420800
5.0
review/summary: Cracking little machine for the pricereview/text: I purchased my first Cappuchino and Espresso maker (a Francis Francis) about 13 years ago - when I lived in the UK - and it cost about 12 times the price of the EC155 - it came from Italia and was a bit tempramental but then like all instruments, you have to be taught how to play before you can make great music. When this machine finally died (erm, due to being dropped) I looked around for a cheaper version and I found the De'Longhi EC1. It was their flagship model at the time and cost about 7 times the price of this little baby. That model was also a combined drip coffer maker too. I loved that machine and I loved De'Longhi as a company too for when my machine started to have a leak after about 18 months I contacted De'Longhi who got in touch with a local dealer who repaired it for me free of charge. The only reason I don't have that machine still is that it was one of many 240v kitchen appliances that got left in the UK.So onto this little baby (EC155)- for the price you really can't go wrong. It's small, compact and makes a fabulous espresso and cappuchino - PROVIDING you follow the same simple guidelines that great baristos have been following for generations. 1) make sure you use the right blend of coffee, 2) make sure it's ground to the right level for make espresso, 3) make sure your water has reached the right temp, 4) don't over or under 'temp' (i.e. compact) your grounds and 5) Treat your equipment well - that means cleaning it (the milk frother each time you use it and the machine about once every 90 uses). Do this and this little machine makes a fantastic crema on your espresso.This machine is perfect for making one large cup (double shot) of cappuchino or two esspressos in one go. Reason being, the volume of the coffee ground tray and the height of the machine limits the volume of coffee you can draw from one filling and the depth of the milk jug you can use. But for those occassions when you have 3 or 4 guests around and you want to impress them all with a large latte or cappuchino over dinner... there is an easy rememdy for the milk - just place something underneath the machine to raise it's height. I initially used a non-glossy hardback book. Then I could use a 16oz jug and have all the milk ready for three large cups.I bought this machine about 3 months ago, use it every day (for at least 2-3 large cups for me and my partner) and have not had a problem with it. Which is why I stick with De'Longhi (also purchased two airconditioners and fans from them over the past 10 years).I have read many of the negative comments on here and apart from mechanical faults, the issue found can all be address by the 5 golden rules above - rules that apply to any bar pressure espresso maker - which by the way, also applied to the expensive Francis Francis model I originally owned and almost gave up on until someone taught me the.. do's and don'ts.It's just a shame you can't get the same wide range of De'Longhi machines in the US.


