1357689600
5.0
review/summary: Fantastic kettlereview/text: I've been using one of these for 5 years and like it so much I just bought a new one in case they quit making them - which seems to happen all the time to stuff I like. The secret to longevity is as much as possible to NOT use the switch which is the "weak link" in the system. I'm usually quite close to the kettle and as soon as I hear the water boiling I just lift the pot off of the power ring. That prevents the switch from tripping itself off automatically. I keep the kettle beside the power ring when not in use and whenever I want to use it I add whatever amount of water I need and set the kettle back on the ring, which makes it start heating the water right away. All this without ever touching the actual on/off switch - I basically just leave it in the on position permanently and let placing the kettle on and off the power ring control the boiling. Once in a while I'm not right there when the water boils and it WILL trip the off switch automatically which is what it is supposed to do. Since I rarely ever flip the switch it will never wear out and the kettle should be good for another 5 years.The kettle itself is really well made, all stainless steel with NO plastic anywhere inside the pot except the very top lid which doesn't bother me. The lid swings on two pins and has a nice removable feature where you push a button which pulls the pins in just a bit and the lid lifts right out so the pot is wide open for cleaning if you choose. It has a lot of room to pour your water - I usually just measure the water I want to use and boil that since I don't like to leave water in the kettle between uses. That way I don't have to wonder if I have too much or too little water in the kettle - I always know there is just enough for my purpose.To me this is far and away the best electric kettle I have come across - it boils REALLY fast and has no plastic parts anywhere touching the water and with my "switch preservation" technique I have never had a single problem with the kettle and I have used it at least once a day every single day for 5 years. I don't know how you can ask for more. Highly recommended.


