1357257600
4.0
review/summary: Works great, but don't keep it fullreview/text: What's a coffee grinder supposed to do? Technically, it's supposed to grind coffee. This machine does that, and does it quite well. With 18 available grind settings from fine to course, it's quite versatile. Personally, I have two methods of brewing (Filtercone and French Press), so I flip between coarse and medium. I'm not sure how much difference there is between each grind setting (i.e. between the 15th notch and 16th notch), but it doesn't hurt to have that kind of flexibility, I guess. It's a bit louder than I'd hoped, but an improvement over my previous Black and Decker burr grinder.Being able to grind for coffeemakers from 4 cups to 18 cups is a handy feature to have. I like that you can press the start button and walk away, knowing it will stop by itself at the right point. Of course, you may have to fiddle with both the cup and grind settings until you find what works best for your taste preference and brewing method.The main problem is the fact that the hopper can hold a pound of coffee. While it can do a great job of grinding it, it's a less than perfect method for coffee storage. I roast my own coffee at home, pound at a time. I usually will store it in an airtight container for maximum freshness. But I decided to store a pound in the grinder's hopper to see how well it would retain freshness. When I woke in the morning, I lifted the lid expecting wonderful coffee aroma, but the scent was pretty faint. The resulting cup also was disappointingly flat, void of any defining characteristics. Also, the 4-cup setting (the smallest) grinds a bit more than I need for a single cup, so I have to store the extra grounds in a small container.So I went back to storing the coffee in the airtight container, and only grinding what I need when I make a large cup (about 3 tablespoons). I use the smallest cup setting (4), and it does a good job of grinding, but the last few beans bounce around the empty hopper quite a bit and often don't make it into the current grind. However, this method DOES produce wonderful coffee.At the other end of the spectrum, my wife buys decaf from Starbucks and has it ground by them for convenience. I tested the big-batch capability by doing a pound of whole bean decaf. It took two 18-cup grinds and a 4-cup to do the pound. While the 18-cup setting takes a bit longer than I'd like, the pound was ground uniformly, and there was enough room left in the ground cup to avoid making a mess when I removed the cover to empty it.


