1351123200
5.0
review/summary: This stovetop espresso maker works OPPOSITE drip percolators!review/text: One interesting thing about stovetop espresso makers is they work OPPOSITE drip percolators. Instead of the boiling water dripping down through the coffee grounds and filter, boiling water is forced UP through the filter into the upper chamber.Although probably not recommended, you can actually open the top and see the coffee gently coming out into the upper chamber. Very interesting!!This "6-cup" makes about enough coffee for a commuter cup. Consider this really a single serving coffee maker! For two people I would highly recommend the 9 cup unit.There is good DECAF espresso available -- LavAzza (Italian made), Cafe Bustelo, and Pilon are all great espresso pre-ground coffees in either regular or decaf versions (I drink decaf). I enjoy full-bodied Pilon decaf. All the taste, none of the caffeine effects! LavAzza in my opinion is probably a smoother coffee, maybe a little less bitter. I have purchased but haven't tried Cafe Bustelo decaf, but the regular version is a good choice for a strong coffee.I disagree with others on the amount of coffee to use -- in this 6-cup unit I put only about a heaping tablespoonful -- not two tablespoons -- and I think my coffee comes out great. You can experiment but may find that if you get a strong coffee such as the ones mentioned above, you really don't need to fill up the coffee section!Lastly, unlike other makers units, the gasket does NOT add any taste to the coffee, and mine has lasted several years! The outside of my stovetop espresso maker gets very discolored, but always seems to work fine! I just rinse mine out after each use.This espresso maker will make an incredibly good cup of coffee very close to pressurized espresso! The cost of coffee probably works out to less than 25 cents per cup!!! (I have purchased Pilon decaf for as little as $4.00 for a 10-ounce brick).And if you're looking for a storage container for your coffee, Amazon offers a Leifheit plastic sealing container that is inexpensive but works great!!!Happy coffee drinking; this maker is the best!!


