1356393600
4.0
review/summary: Excellent entry level espresso makerreview/text: I bought this espresso maker a year ago and have used it every day since. I also got the recommended metal tamper, which turned out to be a good idea. I thought I would be buying the espresso pods as my coffee but it turns out using fresh ground coffee is not hard at all.The machine is easy to set up but it took a little head scratching to figure out the printed directions on where and when to turn the switch and nob to do what. Online videos show much better how easy this machine is to use. I do it every morning to get my coffee before I am awake, so it must be easy.First I turn on the machine and by the time I get everything else set the ready light on. I use the included scoop to measure the grounds into the basket and press with the metal tamper. The handle feels a little unsure that it is locked in place but it works. Right after I make the espresso I clean out the basket and machine and I haven't had any problems with it getting clogged. I did disassemble the filter cup and clean it once after 6 months and it made the machine work a little better like when it was new.The quality of the espresso the machine makes is very good. I have tried all kinds of canned and local roasted coffee and the machine makes good espresso from them all. My local coffee shop can make a better espresso, but it is only a little better.I don't drink lattes but I started to make the occasional cappuccino. I had a hard time finding a small enough metal pitcher to fit the spacing of this machine. I wound up taking the top off a restaurant table creamer pitcher and it is just the right size. It gives me enough foam for a cappuccino in a double espresso sized cup. If I needed 8 to 16 ounces of steamed milk I would have to raise the machine so a bigger pitcher could be used. I think the plastic nozzle both helps and limits the foaming process, but the foam I get is much more like micro-foam than the hot milk and suds I get from coffee shops.After one year of use I think the machine has paid for itself in convenience and good espresso. It is easy to set up and learn how to use and is reliable.


