1355184000
4.0
review/summary: Great for Light use, but not the same as a professional steam / dry carpet cleanerreview/text: I have white carpeting on a set of stairs and in the master bedroom, for this reason I saw the need to own one of these machines rather than have the pro's come in twice a year which can be costly. I also have a dog who stinks up the sofa. With these things I mind I figured I could use the carpet cleaner for the white carpet and the attachment for the sofa. While I think the Hoover SteamVac does a good enough job, its not magnificent as some others have mentioned. You would either need some REALLY soiled carpets or never to have hired a professional carpet cleaner to think this product is the 'end all be all.&#34;Its good for what it is, the occasional mess and areas that get high traffic. I would give it a 7 / 8 out of 10.What I don't like about the steamVac is for one you need to vacuum the area you want to clean first. In My mind I should be able to just clean the carpets once, not twice. I also don't like the canister design that holds the dirty water, it has this stupid trap door thing on the front that you need to remove in order to use the attachment. It doesn't like coming out or going back in, and sometimes you are fighting with the damn thing to get it to fit back into place. The design of that piece is horrible, and whoever the engineer was that made that part most definitely doesn't use the SteamVac. Its so easy to get frustrated with that trap door and have it break in your hand.Now we come to the wand....what a mess. I was thinking the sprayer would be in the head of the attachment, but its closer to where your hand is and the angle makes a huge mess if you are holding it and trying to spray stairs or the sofa. You will undoubtedly spray yourself, the floor, the dog, the table next to your sofa, etc. - Needless to say I had the paper towels out afterwards so soak up the sprinkler system-like mess of water this thing created.After all of the trouble though I was pleased with the results. I wish it were less cumbersome and more user friendly though.


