1350864000
4.0
review/summary: Moves a lot of air, noisy, overall - a good product.review/text: I've had this unit for a month now.It is great for moving air. If you have a room - even a very large room - that tends to have problems with a lack of air flow, it's a great solution. Even on the slowest setting, it moves a LOT of air. I find it most useful in areas most remote from the HVAC air handlers, or where heavy odor pollution occurs in my house.It removes a good amount of airborne particles. I believe there is less dust in the air, because things seem a bit cleaner over time. But - my house has a lot of traffic, so it's hard to say for sure. I have long-hair cats, and I often find their hairs trapped in the pre-filter. I have to maintain the unit filters more because of their constant shedding and house traffic. It's simple to pull the filters out, vacuum them clean, then return the unit to use. Only takes a few minutes to do the whole job, and works like a champ. Be careful not to over-tighten the unit; this is largely made of plastic. The large securing knob on the bottom only requires a few easy turns to close and seal the unit securely. Any more and it feels like you could risk cracking the housing. It is very light for its rather large size (about 18" round and just as tall) and though a bit bulky, it can be easily moved from one place to another and re-deployed in seconds.I run the unit on its lowest setting pretty much 24/7. On LOW setting, it's a nice background white-noise useful for falling to sleep (though the blue LED light on the dial can be very bright in a dark room). On MED or HIGH settings, the unit noise increases greatly. On HIGH, it is almost obnoxiously loud. I only use HIGH for brief periods to disperse heavy smells near the source (smoke, cooking, after painting a room, etc). It's not an odor eliminator by itself - but on HIGH, it moves so much air that odors are minimized relatively quickly. One painted room took a few days to clear the odor out, but I think the unit helped minimize paint smell much faster than it would have on its own - again, just by moving heaps of air.Overall, for a nice, light, large portable fan unit capable of minor air quality improvement and odor elimination through the high-volume exchange/movement of air, this is a great system to have. The only reason for the 4-stars is because it's noisy on higher settings. I highly recommend this unit.


