1351987200
4.0
review/summary: There is probably no perfect ice cream makerreview/text: Before buying this machine, I checked out the one-star reviews. Cuisinart's reputation has dived in the last decade, and I wanted to be sure that a significant proportion of machine purchases weren't dead-in-the water from the get-go. Most of the complaints seem to center around the slushiness or liquidity of the produced ice cream and problems in cleaning or refreezing the bowl.I bought a used Cuisinart Pure Indulgence via Craig's List In August. So far I've made five batches of old-fashioned vanilla ice cream. All were smooth and soft enough to eat immediately when finished.What went wrong with the batches produced by the unhappy customers? My guess is that their home freezers don't pre-freeze the Cuisinart bowl at zero degrees. A zero-degree pre-frozen bowl produces just the right ice cream consistency for immediate consumption. Also, the bowl can be used for another batch without completely thawing it or removing every bit of ice cream from the previous batch. Just return the bowl to the freezer (I put it inside a plastic bag) for a half hour or so, and then make the next batch. I decided to buy an extra bowl to keep in the freezer, but for the price of an extra bowl from retail sources online, I found (again on Craig's List) I could buy an entire additional (used) machine.My apologies to Amazon for not buying directly from them, but maybe one, or both, of my used machines came originally from Amazon.Finally, a note on buying used small appliances and durability expectations. The Cusinart Pure Indulgence is a very basic machine, with little to go wrong and straightforward trouble shooting. If the machine turns on and the bowl turns, you're in business. Some customers expressed worry that the plastic paddle that processes the mix seemed flimsy. It seems sturdy enough to do the job, and the slipperiness of the plastic helps the thickening ice cream slush move better through it. I expect my small inexpensive ice cream makers will be producing batches for some time in the future.One of the sellers I bought a machine from wanted to upgrade to a machine that would do its own pre-freezing and produce a larger volume. I wished him the best, but adding a condenser creates a much more complicated (and expensive) product . And reviews in Amazon of such higher-end products indicate higher levels of consumer dissatisfaction.


