1348531200
5.0
review/summary: My FAVORITE go-to drink bottle nowreview/text: LOVE LOVE LOVE this ! I've had this item for over one month now & use it DAILY. I work night-shift as an RN in a busy unit. I like to bring my own hot coffee from home when I leave the house. I fill up this Thermos Nissan stainless steel with hot coffee from home....than invariably at work I am caught up in patient's rooms & forget about my coffee at my desk. Well I can go back & sip on it 6 hours later at midnight & it is still as HOT as when I poured it in the first place. So hot, that if I pour the orignal coffee when it is too hot to sip, it is still too hot to sip at midnight. I have even sipped at the end of the shift...yes 12 hrs later...& it still is hot! I was shocked, but it is true. Even on my days off, I am a "slow" coffee drinker so I used to set my ceramic mug on one of those electric candle warmers to keep my coffee warm. Well since purchasing my Thermos Nissan I have not used the electric warmer once. No need to. So no worrying about trying not to forget to shut off an electric appliance.I usually use the Thermos Nissan for only coffee, but the other day I decided to put some SunDrop with ice cubes in it for a caffeine break in the middle of my night shift. Ten hours into my shift the ice cubes were still intact & soda was ice cold. I have even left water with ice cubes now in this Thermos in my car when doing errands....and forgot & left it in the car...and the next morning the ice cubes were gone, but the water was still very cold like I had just taken it out of the refrigerator. I was like "wow, cool"! ....or "SWEEET" as my kids would say!I find it easy to clean in hot soapy water. I don't see any removable gaskets or rings anywhere that might accidentally come off & lost like other products have. It does not leak if you use the sturdy metal (not plastic) loop on the side that locks the top piece in place. It can fit sideways in my purse, upright in my car's cup holder, & sideways in my gymbag without leaking. I like that you can drink out of it one-handed in the car, no problems. I will be ordering some more of these for my hubby & my 2 teens in college & child at home. I think this would be great for a Christmas gift also. LOVE LOVE LOVE this! One of the best things I ever bought off of Amazon since it is something I use each & everyday.


