1348963200
4.0
review/summary: Breville BJE200XL Experiencereview/text: Like a lot of the other reviewers, I'm new to juicing. Also, like a lot of the reviewers my interest in it took off when I saw the video Fat, Sick and nearly Dead. As a personal trainer I've always research diet and nutrition looking for an edge for myself and my clients.About the machine:*Well made.*"Fairly compact". It sits on the counter all assembled and really doesn't take up much more room than a coffee maker.*Very powerful.*Makes less noise than my Magic Bullet blender.The result of juicing harder vegetables and fruits is pretty good. On occasion a piece of veggie or fruit will get caught and flung to the catching container. This is wasteful but never really a big waste. A person could run the remains through again if they wanted, but that would be a bit of a pain, at least for me. I live with it and try to juice items slowly when possible. My first attempts at juice I would try to fill up the chute, then slowly put down on the plunger but in most cases when the chute is full it's difficult to juice slowly since I would push down slowly but would have to put more pressure on it because items are getting lodged against each other. What would happen is that once whatever was making it hard to push whet through the blades I'd have so much pressure on the plunger that the other items would get pushed through too fast which would then cause the items to not be juiced effectively.I do really like this machine. I gave it 4 stars because it's not perfect. I really don't know if there will ever be a "perfect" juicer. The masticating juicers I've researched have some positive feedback for sure, but there are negatives as well. From what I read, masticating juicers may be a bit better at juicing, but that comes at a cost of how much longer it takes to juice items. This one is well worth the price for what it does. I'd say the process of making a juice and cleanup is a combined 10-15 minutes. I would.....and do recommend this juicer to people I talk to who are interested in juicing.


