1356480000
5.0
review/summary: Keurig--aka Green Mountain Coffee Roaster--rocks the customer service world!review/text: Like so many before me, I got a skunk of Keurig B70 as an early Christmas gift (Dec 7). Lo and behold, it started pushing out error message PRIME within weeks. Dismay. Long face. Bummer. But before I go into that let me just say I wanted to really hate Keurig and the ilk due to the amount of pollution this one appliance inflicts on the universe. It's got to be worse than plastic bags in scope. Just image the not so Green Mountains of spent coffee cartridges filling up landfills. I bought several replacement refillable ecobrew(tm) cartridges and my own coffee, which is incredibly smarter than buying the prefilled ones that were likely filled months before they even landed on store shelves and one can only imagine how long they sit there before all the prefilled Keurig coffee drinkers buy them. So wise up ppl and fill your own! Save the earth, and save money and your health (buy organic free trade coffee folks!). Also along the way, I have come to the conclusion that these units make pretty darn good coffee. They allow me to set the temp a little lower since I hate really hot coffee (if you do, though, you can make it even hotter), and also allows me to make 4 ounces at a time instead of 8 or 12 ounces (the larger fills IMHO water down the taste and make me want to pee a lot). But I digress.I am not here to bitch about how bad Keurig is...just the opposite. I give them a five stars just for their owning up to a faulty machine still on the market. Their customer service is bar none better than any company I have ever dealt with when it came to a kitchen appliance EVER. They're friendly, helpful and quickly replaced my bad machine with a newer model (better mechanics, let's hope, fingers crossed...I'll update) without any flack. Of course, I am bummed that this malfunctioning unit goes to the landfill, so I may just resell it as a damaged unit on ebay for some genius who wants to tear into it and try to fix it. I did, however, have to send back the filter holder, so anyone thinking of scamming the system should be aware that you cannot buy those as a replacement...Amen.Keurig B70 Platinum Brewing System


