1350086400
4.0
review/summary: Durable, Basic Machine. Perfect for the beginner brewer.review/text: I ordered this for my boyfriend, who's the 'set an alarm for 5am to drink a pot of coffee by 7am' kind of guy. I was looking for something simple to use, that will last us a long time. And trust me, at the rate that we drink coffee, this machine has some big shoes to fill. So far, it stands up to it's job. Makes a great cup of coffee, and expressos are wonderful little things, since drinking a whole pot of the regular ol' stuff meant peeing 20 times before even leaving the house in the morning. I'm proud to say that there will be no more speeding tickets trying to get to work to pee. Now, let's get to the pros and cons;Pros:Great tasting stuff here! Makes a killer cap and a nice, rich expresso. Frother really kicks out some steam. We've found that skim milk makes the fluffiest froth. Like a tiny cumulous cloud in your coffee cup. Or, if your Bob Ross, it's a happy little cloud that lives here. Also, the stainless steel filters: Brilliant! Compact, fits almost anywhere. The settings are so easy, you could get this for your grandmother who just figured out how to use the VHS rewind button. Looks great, everything comes apart to wash. Just run a cup of vinegar & water through every month for easy internal maintence and that's it. Best machine for the price. Works with pods, if you chose to do this.Cons:It takes a minute to heat up all the way. Don't get me wrong, if you're in a hurry, you can kick out a hot cup of jo in 5 minutes. But you won't have that pretty crema that coffee shops compete over. You can also just eat a handful of coffee grounds first thing in the morning, if waking up is all you're trying to achieve. The frother handle could have been a bit longer, and you'll have to find those modern low profile cups to fit under the filter because pouring hot liquid from a bowl into a cup sucks.All in all, with proper maintence, this is a great machine. It's not that fancy-schansy machine you see at starbucks. But after a few expressos, you'll feel like a pro. And you won't have to wear those stupid hats.


