1345766400
4.0
review/summary: Glad I bought this!review/text: I have been using this stick vac for a little over 3 weeks now and I just love it. The only reason I didn't give it 5 stars is noted below, and might not even be a concern to some who live in a different local.Pros: Works surprising well on low pile carpet (welcome surprise)Powerful for it's sizeWorks great on tile for cat box litter messesEasy swivel headEasy to clean outLong enough cordCons: Runs hotHeat dispurses out both side and toward me instead of out the front away from me.No crevice toolNo hand held unit detachmentI live in a Desert climate and because this unit runs hot and vents the hot air out the sides, the hot air is blowing at me instead of away from me. Being in a hot local most of the year, this is unwelcomed. However, if you live in a cold climate this might be a plus. (smile)Since the unit swivels so well, I have just learned to angle my body *with* the unit so as to keep the hot air way from me as much as possible.Cleaning against an edge works better if you angle straight in instead of running along the side like you would think you should. The low size of the nozzle makes it easy to get under stuff. And the long cord makes it easy to vac a larger area at once. Thr fact that it doesn't have a crevice tool or a hand held detachable device would have been preferred, but then it probably would have cost more so that's ok. I didn't really buy this unit for my carpet areas but it has gotten me out having to drag out the large vac on several occasions and works fairly well for quick pick ups. I noticed other comments saying that the vac just quit one day on them. I wonder if they realize that vac's usually have a safety mechanism that shuts a unit off when the filter gets too clogged up! Because this is a smaller unit, this might happen quite frequently and you need to check the filter and clean it out. I have purchases a second filter that I just switch out when needed so I don't have to clean the exisitng filter right then. They are pretty cheap here on Amazon.This is a pretty efficient little unit and works very well on tile and quite well on low pile carpet as well. Just remember to keep the filter clean.


