1356220800
5.0
review/summary: Great For Pet Owners!review/text: I have two labrador retrievers; one that is elderly and has periodic incontinence issues, and one that is young and likes to come into the house with dirty feet and pounce all over the place, leaving muddy pawprints EVERYWHERE...leaving me very frustrated. Spot cleaning was futile, as I found the spot cleaners left weird light spots all over my carpet, actually making it look worse.On a whim, I decided to order the Hoover SteamVac Carpet Cleaner with Clean Surge based on the overall excellent reviews. Set-up was fairly straigtforward, following the quick set-up instructions. I will say that I DID NOT get the audible "click" that an above reviewer states you may hear upon set-up, thus ensuring your machine will not leak. Like the reviewer notes, Hoover must have addressed this issue, because there was no click and my machine does not leak. Just follow the directions exactly.I also purchased the Hoover carpet cleaning solution for pets. Upon first use, I followed the directions on the bottle and added 5 ounces of cleaner per gallon of hot water. As I commenced cleaning, I did notice my dirty water reservoir was not filling up very quickly, as some of the reviews noted. I think my problem was that I was not squirting out as much clean solution as I should have been. On subsequent cleanings, I am finding that if I add about 7-8 ounces of cleaning solution to 1 gallon of half boiled water/half hot tap water, I am getting much better results. I clean the carpet in small areas at a time--about a 5-foot by 5-foot area--and I squirt the hot cleaning solution out several times as I move the machine forward, then several times as I move it backward directly adjacent to the first swipe. Then I go over these two swipes without squirting (dry mode) until I notice there is no more water being sucked up into the machine. Then I repeat the process.I can clean my entire family room (about 250-300 square feet) in about 20-30 minutes, without having to empty the dirty water reservoir or refill the clean. Cleaning the machine itself afterwards is fairly straightforward and easy and involves emptying and rinsing out the two reservoirs and cleaning the part of the machine that does the actual sucking up of the dirty water. This is accomplished by pouring a cup or so of warm water on a non-carpeted, non-wood floor (like linoleum) and then turning on the machine and sucking up the clean water. This clears out most of the scum that gets caught in the head of the cleaner. Anything that remains stuck can easily be extracted with the long, thin cleaning tool that comes with it.When I'm finished, the carpet is surprisingly dry, soft, and fresh-smelling, and looks as if it was just professionally cleaned, for a tiny fraction of the price. I no longer freak out if my dogs come in with muddy paws, or if my older dog has some leakage! Very happy with my purchase!!!


