1357344000
1.0
review/summary: Don't buyreview/text: This was my first venture into juicing. I wanted to add more vegetables to my diet and had plans to use this once a day at breakfast. With 1200+ reviews and almost 5 stars, I had high hopes for this juicer.Before buying, I read all reviews and my issue was mentioned a few times. The #1 reason I returned it to Amazon, and the reason you shouldn't make this purchase, is the mesh filter screen doesn't come clean. At the bottom of the screen there's a strip of metal tight AGAINST the mesh the whole way around. Anyone who likes this juicer, please hold your filter up to the light and look around the bottom. I am NOT lazy and the juicer comes with a dense, stiff bristle brush that's NOT wimpy. I cleaned up immediately after use (I personally would never put juicer parts in the dishwasher.). I tried combinations of scrubbing and soaking and NOTHING would completely remove all the bits of food. This is a health concern.I would've been ok spending extra time cleaning the filter but don't believe it's possible to get it completely clean. I cannot believe Breville came up with such a terrible design. A little common sense would've of done them well.If you're still actually interested in this juicer after reading the above here's the rest...-The pulp isn't sawdust dry but I didn't expect it to be. To get an idea of consistency, you can roll it into a ball. It sticks together. I couldn't squeeze any juice out of it with my hands. Out of curiosity, I did run it back through the juicer a 2nd time and no juice came out.-A few times I noticed a couple small pieces of carrot or celery that wasn't blended but this wasn't a deal breaker for me. I think it depends on the size of the food and how fast they're juiced. I noticed the pieces when I used smaller veggies. I pushed everything really slow through the juicer. Most times the food will sink down slowly by itself and I wouldn't even push.-To get an idea of the amount of juice, one recipe in the book supposedly makes 2 glasses and calls for 4 small Granny Smith apples, 3 medium carrots, and 4 sticks of celery. I used 2 small apples, 2 medium carrots, and 2 sticks of celery and got a tall glass of juice.-I had no issues with food spraying all over the place. I used the pusher and you can easily shield your hand over the top.-The rest of the clean up (including the middle section of mesh filter) was really easy.The other issue I was concerned about, and other reviewers had problems with, was the seal of the pulp basket. If the seal wasn't done properly I can see how food could easily get wedged in there and be a problem; another poor design.Juicing is something I wish to continue once a day. After doing a little reading you'll see none are perfect. I considered going with a different Breville but over and over again I see people comment how terrible their customer service is so, for that reason, I'm done with the brand. I purchased the L'Equip 306150 Mini Pulp Ejection Juicer and will eventually write a review on that.UPDATE - Used the L'Equip juicer for the first time and honestly got more juice from the same amount of food. The mesh filter, as well as the rest of the machine, cleans easy. The type of pulp looks and feels the same as the Breville.


