1353196800
5.0
review/summary: How to quiet the hum; AND ideal for use UNDER a grand piano!review/text: Honeywell HCM-6009:Bought this on the theory that it could be safely placed under my grand piano without causing condensation on the underside of the piano (because it blows humidified air out laterally instead of upwards from the top as with most humidifiers). That has worked out fine, although even at lower speeds one feels the laterally-blown cool humidified air at some distance. For best comfort it is advisable to wear pants while playing. ;)Had a hunch about the soft but nasty hum distinctly audible at the two lower speed settings, and it has proved correct: As with all inexpensively manufactured speed controls these days, speed is reduced by passing the AC power through a solid state device that continuously 'chops off' the originally smooth peaks and valleys of the AC sine waveform that drives the motor that turns the fan. This method DOES reduce fan speed by reducing total AC power, but the cost is a steady rapid vibration of the motor that, while perfectly safe, produces a soft but nasty raucous hum at the two lower speeds.SOLUTION: Look on eBay for a "variac". This is the generic term for a VARIable AC transformer. These are rather heavy double-palm-sized iron-core transformer devices for variably lowering the AC voltage (and thus the fan motor speed) without chopping the waveform and causing extra hum from the motor.Get one that is fully enclosed in a metal housing, with a large black rotary knob, an on/off switch, a fuse (or a circuit breaker button) and an AC outlet to plug the humidifier into. The variac itself has its own power cord, which you plug into any wall socket. Get one rated for at least 1 ampere of current handling capability. Most are rated for 5 amps or more, and they are also fine to use, with no upper limit. (The HCM-6009 is rated by the manufacturer as using only 0.7 amperes of electrical current at 120 volts.)There are brightly painted relatively inexpensive brand new variacs from China, likely OK, but have never used any except older "General Radio' or "Stancor" or other mid-20th century American names. A voltage meter on a variac is unnecessary for this application.If you are patient, you'll eventually find a used one on eBay for under $50, though many are much more expensive. Age is not usually a factor if it doesn't look at all beat up and the power cord insulation is fully intact. Lack of a modern 3-prong plug and 3-prong receptacle is not a problem, because the HCM-6009 uses a 2-prong plug.The only internal moving part on any variac is a conductive 'wiper' that continually contacts the bare transformer windings inside the housing as you rotate to a selected voltage. The wiper can get dirty and become intermittent in providing power at certain points in the rotation of the knob, but this is rare, and usually not completely debilitating. In the rare event that this does occur, often rotating the knob back and forth a few dozen times will clean it.The HCM-2009 fan speed control on the top of the humidifier should be set to run at FULL SPEED. (The humidity control knob can be set wherever you like it, but at reduced fan speeds it might work best to set it on maximum so that the humidity output is steady without cycling on and off. That way you will be adjusting humidity in the room solely via fan speed).When you turn the variac down to roughly 70 or 75 volts on the calibrated knob bezel, you'll achieve a lower fan speed without the hum. Don't turn the knob so low that the fan is barely blowing (this could be bad for the motor)--keep a reasonable air flow that is roughly comparable to the lowest speed on the humidifier control itself without the variac in line with it. Virtually all variac knob bezels are calibrated in volts from '0' to 120,130 or 140 volts. Obviously you should also avoid turning the variac past 120, the rated voltage for this motor running at full speed.Strictly as a functional humidifier (with or without a variac), this thing puts out a very good amount of moisture. At 75 volts (where even the sound of rushing air is rather quiet) I need to refill both tanks only once a day, and the humidity is raised by as much as 8 or 10 percent, or more, above previous ambient humidity. You should expect significantly more humidity increase at higher speed settings, but at the audible cost of louder rushing air.Now for the bedroom portion of this review: Variacs are also excellent as infinitely variable speed controls for Hitachi Magic Wands. Again, set the Wand speed switch to the highest setting and creatively vary the speed with the variac. For back massages, I mean.If you like pianos, quiet, and/or physical relaxation of whatever sort, I hope this has been helpful...The 5 star rating is for use WITH a variac; otherwise 4-stars because of the hum.


