1358899200
5.0
review/summary: 15 plus years of experience, eleven bottles later!review/text: I bought my first when they were just 'Thermos', no Nissan merger. It was pricey in the mid 90's at 28.00 but it was just what I had been looking for. Over the next few years I had three stolen from me. I loved them so much I kept replacing them until the last time, when I discovered they had been discontinued. I was so upset I went searching for all the back stock I could find and bought seven of them. This stash has held me supplied all these years. We have three in play at any one time; one for each member of the family. But for Christmas I wanted to give my sister one, so I parted with the last MIB Backpack bottle I had and wrapped it up for her to use now that she is a student again. She loves hers.Then I had three lids fail in quick succession. ARRGH. A Crisis! I am so happy to have found they are back in production!! Maybe the annoyed letter I wrote about discontinuing such a successful product mot being a great business model did not fall on deaf ears! I am ordering four more, so we have three in play and one in reserve.These bottles have all performed well and consistently over the years. I have gotten, when they haven't been stolen from grocery carts or left sitting somewhere, years of use from them. They keep that magic vacuum heat and chill even when old and scratched and battered. Cracks in the plastic seem to not affect the temperature retention capacity. The lids are quite sturdy.I soak the bottles in hot water and soap over night on the drainboard, and run a good bottle brush up and down the insides, They come clean from the nastiest coffee stains and do not taint tea or cocoa with a coffee flavour. DO NOT run the bottle through the dishwasher.The plastic base, a weak point in the design, will separate from the steel walls when they are run through the dishwasher. Do not drop the bottles. The plastic base will split and crack. When this has happened I have taken silicone glue and squeezed it inside the base through the cracks and then smeared it around the base to seal it up again and make it so it doesn't collect water, or snag clothing. I have even considered making a cover of a neoprene band to glue to it and protect the base. I find it frustrating that they don't just make the damn base of stainless as well.I have run the lids right through the dish washer, in the top rack. Over and over. Hundreds of tests here and never have I had a problem with the tops. They come through clean and fresh. You can peel off the rubber cover and wash it by hand if you wish, but I would not bother. A run through the dishwasher is all it needs. Really. Dishwasher. Best Way Ever.The tops are sturdier than the plastic bases, but they can fail as well. One I dropped while the lid was open and part of the sipping rim cracked off. I have also dropped them and not had any breakage; they are not flimsy, but they can crack if they land wrong. I have had two of the grey plastic clips that snap the lid shut fail. One cracked in half and the other just popped off, but this was after years of use, and we continued to use the bottles with the metal bail holding the lids tight enough to prevent spills and casual sloshing as long as they remained mostly upright. Without the grey clip you can not dump them in a bag sideways and expect them to not seep.I am ordering 4 more tonight. Three to replace the three that I broke the lids on since Christmas,a nd one to hold in reserve as a replacement or a gift.A stainless steel bottom would be the only change I would suggest to this design. You will not ever regret purchasing one of these ; -)


