1355961600
5.0
review/summary: Everything I wanted in a food processorreview/text: This replaced a Kitchenaid 7-cup because the locking design of that particular model kept failing because the bowl would break or start to come apart at the handle. After replacing the bowl twice, I decided it was time for an upgraded processor. I got this DLC-2009CHB because it was a good value with good reviews. I think 2009 indicates why it is a good value as we near the end of 2012.9-cups seems the right size for me. The locking mechanism seems solid and appears like it will last. It has three locks -- the base, the life, and the pusher. Concerns me that all three must work but, again, the seem solid and the reviews do not indicate frequent failure.Likes:--This baby looks great. Stylish. Good steel look. Simple design. And it does not take up much of a footprint on the counter. I keep it in a place where the height does not matter. As others have said, it is tall -- much taller than my old one.--It is powerful. Has make simple work of the stuff I tried so far. All simple enough like grating hard cheese, soft cheese, veggies etc. No meat or tough jobs yet. I do not plan to make dough in it (never did in my old one but I might give it a try in this one). I am guessing it has whatever power is needed for whatever I ask it to do.--Cleans up easier than my old one. Sure there are nooks and places for water to get trapped. I have taken to cleaning the bowl and lid by hand most times. The bowl because it cleans about as fast as I can rinse it. The lid because it almost never has had stuff on it. Everything can go in the dishwasher, but it may not come out dry in all the little places designed as part of the safety locking system.Wishes&#34;--I wish it had a small bowl accessory -- 4-cup would be nice sometimes. I can not find one and I don't think they made/make one for this model.--I wish it came with a few more blades (fine grating, and multiple slice thicknesses). They are available but a bit pricey considering the price of the entire unit was so low. I'll wait to see what I really think I need/want.--I wish the large pusher piece did not need to be in place in order to start the unit. I'd drop big things in there and as it is, you need to stop the unit and then restart it. This seemed a bit odd when grating a big hunk of cheese that is taller than the push unit. The push unit needs to be slightly engaged in order for the blade to start. The small opening is too small to handel a big chuck but could handle tall thin things. Maybe I'm missing the best way to do this.Overall:--I highly recommend this unit for basic food processing. I'm glad I got the 2009 model for its simplicity and value over the newer model.


