1357603200
5.0
review/summary: No matter what anyone says this is a Great Bread Makerreview/text: Update to Review - Feb 03, 2013. This machine still amazes me. Since I bough this machine in Nov or Dec I have NEVER had a bad loaf yet. I make at least a loaf of bread every day or at least every other day. Every time I open the lid after it finishes I am amazed at how beautiful the loaf looks and then tastes. It looks just like loaves of bread I use to pick up from my neighborhood bakery when I was growing up. This is a great machine. I've had absolutely no problems.After reading all the negative comments about this Panasonic SD-YD250 Bread Maker I was really skeptical about buying this product. Before this one I have always had a Breadman Bread maker WHAT a difference. NIGHT and DAY. The first loaf of bread I decided to make with the new Panasonic was my old tried and true recipe of just plain ole white bread. I strayed from the book which isn't the greatest but not bad either, and proofed my yeast at the bottom of the container like I always do for ten minutes with the sugar. Then added the oil, flour and salt. I also was questioning why it had to wait for 20 to 40 minutes to rest before it started to mix the dough but I think it is to get all the ingredients at the proper temperature, I really think this makes a difference. Then it started to mix the dough and it does make a little noise but it's not that bad. Plus it doesn't last that long. And yes you think it is going to travel across the counter and fall off. I did in fact sit and watch to see if it moved. It never moved a millimeter. It just made it's noise and finished mixing. It mixes a couple of other times for a very short period of time. Then all it does is rise and bake. Simple as that. It is strange not to have a window in it but there again I think that they (Panasonic) got it right. It's a much better oven container with equal metal surface all around. And did I mention the price? Little over a hundred dollars. What a bargain. I could hardly wait for the final beeps to tell be that it was done. My hopes where really not that high. BUT let me tell you I've NEVER had as beautiful a loaf of bread as this was. Texture was absolutely PERFECT! And of course my recipe tastes really good. I have only had it for about two weeks. Have made two more of my white bread and same PERFECT results. I've also done cinnamon raisin and this time I did use the yeast dispenser on top and it worked like a charm. Again a PERFECT loaf of cinnamon raisin bread beautiful crust and texture. If there was anything bad to say about this machine is that the loaf pan is too big. There is just two of us and I wanted a loaf that was a little more like sandwich size not so tall. BUT I think all I have to do to fix this problem is make the smallest loaf size and I think this will solve the problem.


