1353196800
2.0
review/summary: Another typical, ho-hum productreview/text: Let's look at the design of this mattress first:It has two seperate air bladders. The good is that if one fails, it doesn't completely ruin the whole mattress. The bad is you have two chambers to fill with air, and if one chamber fails, the bed is only barely usable. And the pump is built in, so if the pump fails, you can't use another pump left over from another airbed, or even manually blow, since the motor covers the inlet permanently. And this pump will frequently shut down during pumping of your bed (until it cools down). How many times will it do that before it dies, since it shuts down whenever it overheats? A quirk with this style of fill is that when the pump shuts off to cool itself, the bed also deflates instantly, so you have to start over, unless you manually manipulate the two fill valves to their off position the split second the pump shuts off. So you have to sit there ready to throw the switch to off when the pump overheats, which it does when turned on for a few minutes. Not a real plus in my book. Good luck getting all the air out to fit into the box it came in to return it!The bottom of the bed's plastic shell has fuzz on it for slip resistance (good), but the sides of the bed are devoid of this (shiny), so that if your leg touches the vinyl (?) it feels very cold on the skin (bad). The fuzzy coating should be over the whole mattress.On a positive note, the pump is not very loud, so that's good. But it's also significantly slower than most mattresses I've experienced (bad).My bed's main issue is it will hold air reliably in only one of the two chambers. The other one has to be pumped up about every hour.If you've been looking for a flawed air mattress, look no further. If you just want to sleep on a bed without fuss, keep looking. I was generous with my rating as I've taken our new, low standards in manufacturing as the new normal.Most if not all of these types of mattresses are made in China. They are of poor quality.Why buy from a country that makes mostly junk, and hates us anyway? Why don't Americans know how to make a simple airbed that doesn't cost as much as a regular mattress? Why do we not look at the country of origin when we shop? This is just the beginning of a long, National downward slide towards extinction, or at the very least solid third-world status.And we keep re-electing incompetent, narcissistic, anti-American, racist, divisive, Godless, fascist communists to positions of leadership. Pathetic. You and I deserve a bed like this!


