1344556800
5.0
review/summary: From a dog owner - this is an Excellent Value!review/text: I have been using this Hoover model for about 7 months. I use it often, as we have 3 dogs - with one aged, complete with an uncontrollable bladder. I had previously owned a very expensive Bissell carpet cleaner that lasted quite a few years - and eventually broke at the handle. Now retired, I was hoping to find a shampooer at a lot less cost, but still did the job. As mentioned, I've used this model often, and it does just as good a job as my previous, much more expensive cleaner. And at $140, with free shipping, this turned out to be a great value.For those who may not know, no carpet cleaner - or vacuum cleaner for that matter - does a good job if you are in a hurry. Patience is required. Going slowly: (1) applies the cleaner more thoroughly; (2) actually cleans the carpet more thoroughly; and (3) brings up the wetness more thoroughly - allowing the carpet to dry much quicker. Also, if you have extra-soiled spots, you'll be well served to go over those spots several times. The wetter you make the spot, the more you'll want to repeat going back over it to dry it out. This holds true for ANY, not just this model.How I compare this model to my previous cleaner: Much, much cheaper. Does the same great job of cleaning. It is much lighter in weight - which is good news/bad news: the good news being obvious; the bad news being that it's made with much thinner & cheaper plastic. This model requires some assembly (simple enough) upon arrival; and in so doing, you'll notice how cheap the parts are. Frankly, while I was doing the assembly, I was very disappointed and figured this product had to be crap. Not so. It's obviously made cheaper - but it does the job, and it does it very well. After reading reviews here in Amazon, I was braced for a very loud roar the first time I turned it on. Uh, I have no idea what all the fuss is about, concerning how loud it is. It's no louder than my other cleaner was. Carpet cleaners are not quiet, and this one's noise level is not noteworthy to me. Because it is made so cheaply you'll need to handle it with some degree of care & gentleness. No matter what model you ever buy, I offer this free advice: WARNING for any model of any manufacturer: DO NOT PICK IT UP AND HAUL IT ABOUT BY ITS HANDLE!!! I use to do this with my old Bissell. I thought I was being careful enough to do so, but eventually it broke up by the handle. It automatically became instant garbage. This model will require even more TLC because it is so cheaply made.The bottom line: I love it. I'd recommend it to anyone.


