1356825600
4.0
review/summary: Does a great job, but name is misleadingreview/text: This carpet cleaner does a great job at making your carpet look like new again, but the &#34;SteamVac&#34; part of the name is misleading. When you fill up your clean water tank, which you mix with the cleaning detergent, it's recommended you use very hot water, but the machine itself does nothing to make it steam or to even keep it hot when you start using the machine. The only thing it might do is blow hot air on the carpet while the front part of it sucks up the dirty water off your carpet.With that said, it's still a great carpet cleaner considering the price. We have two small dogs that are not totally potty trained. They're fine during the summer, but on cold or rainy days in the winter they prefer to do their business on our carpet in the room when we're not looking. After 3-4 months of this, our carpet was disgusting and I thought we would have to replace the carpet instead of cleaning it. However, I gave this machine a chance and it did wonders. Our carpet looks like new again! However, you should know that I took my time and was patient. What this means is that I pulled the machine along the carpet at about one tenth of the speed I would use if I was simply vacuuming. Additionally, I went over the same path of carpet 3-4 times in most areas. All in all, I spent a good 20 minutes on just the room. In my opinion though, the time went by quickly and it was more than worth the effort. I also recommend using a spot remover spray on tough parts before getting started just to loosen stuff up on the grimier areas.The design of the machine is actually quite old, I would say at least 15 years. My wife and I bought this unit to replace our old Hoover that was 15+ years old, and although this one has a few things that make it look newer, the basic design is identical. Not that this is a bad thing. The clean water/detergent tank on top is very easy to remove and put back on. The bottom tank is also simple to use, however, you have to make sure you put the lid of it back on just right in order for it to work. The first day I used it I had a bit of trouble with getting the lid back on just right. The only reason I found out that the lid on the dirty water tank wasn't completely flush is because the machine wouldn't start back up. After figuring out what the problem was, I simply paid more attention to securing the lid properly and everything was fine after that.Overall, you can't beat this machine for the price. I definitely recommend it.


