1355184000
3.0
review/summary: Fine, as Long as You Like to Clean (Or Like Bitter Coffee!)review/text: This grinder *sounded* great on paper. I read a bunch of the reviews before sending a link to my SO, who bought it for me as a birthday gift. I was upgrading from a blade grinder.Just so you get a feel of where I'm coming from: I store my coffee in a vacuum-sealed container that pumps the air out every time I close it to reduce oxidizing and keep it optimally fresh. (TheBean Vac Battery Operated Vacuum Coffee Canister- I've had it for around a year now and it's been great.) A pound of coffee beans can last several weeks still tasting as fresh as the day it was open. And I start with high-quality beans from a small, boutique roaster. I only grind enough beans for immediate use. And since getting this burr grinder, I've gone back to using my french press (I was using a $100+ drip machine with the blade grinder, largely for convenience, but I thought if I was investing in a burr grinder I should get my French Press out of the closet and really capitalize on the increase in quality.)On the Pro side: Yes, it grinds well and the coffee is DELICIOUS. I no longer have to add sugar to my coffee. I now drink it with just a splash of half and half and think it's perfect. Combined with my French Press, I've never had a better cup of coffee (unfortunately, I'm spoiled now... gotta learn to stop ordering coffee when I'm out at a restaurant.)On the downside, there's a BIG Con: You have to clean it constantly.I read the reviews about the stale coffee getting left in the grinding chamber, etc. and thought "how much of a difference can it make? If I'm making 3 scoops of coffee, how much difference can a little bit of leftover ground coffee make?"The answer: a HUGE difference.The first several times I used the grinder, the coffee was divine. I was in heaven. But by about the third cup, I was noticing little paper-like shavings mixed in with the grind, which I assumed were some husk remnant. The coffee was a little bit less impressive. By the 4th and 5th grind, the coffee had gotten bitter and had sort of an odd flavor - I had to start adding sugar back in. Another use or two and it was downright foul - I threw the batch out. I thought: "I've been using the thing for around a week - surely it doesn't need to be cleaned already. But these weird little things in the grinds are freaking me out a little - I'll check it out."Lo! And Behold! There was SO MUCH leftover coffee in the grinding chamber and chute! I was shocked! It was somewhere between a teaspoon and a tablespoon of stale, dried out ground coffee left in the grinder that was getting mixed in with every batch. That's not an insignificant amount. It's a huge amount.Took the thing apart and cleaned it (thankfully it's easy to take apart) and the next batch of coffee was heavenly again. And all of the weird little faux dried paper husk things were eliminated. The coffee was back to being divine.Used it twice and cleaned it just to see how much was left in there after two uses... and it was at least a teaspoon of ground, staling coffee left in the grinding chamber. Which would have gotten mixed with my delicious, expensive, heavenly fresh-ground coffee. So now I'm disassembling the grinder every 2 days to clean it so I don't get the nasty, bitter "off" taste back in my coffee.If I had it to do over, I wouldn't buy again because that's just too much work, IMO. It's easy to clean and the process is reasonably fast, but I feel I shouldn't have to disassemble the hopper and burrs every other time I use it. The coffee is a VAST improvement over my old blade grinder, which is why I give this 3 stars - otherwise it would be less - but I wouldn't recommend it and I won't buy it again whenever this one gives up the ghost.


