1361318400
5.0
review/summary: perfect popcorn! get a bigger bowl if you can't get it to stay in your small bowlreview/text: so, after much debate on which air pop corn popper to get, i settled on this one, the presto pooplite. i am very pleased! i have used it atleast 20 times without a problem.it's amazing if you follow directions how things work smoothly.step 1. plug in machine to warm it up2. measure 1/2 cup only of popcorn and put inside, immediately put measuring cup lid back on top - or your hot air with not stay contained in the area it is supposed to.3. make sure you have a large bowl placed under the area where the popcorn will come out. now i thought based on some of the reviews that my kitchen was going to be covered in popcorn when it was done- so not true. i think once in the 20 times i've made popcorn i've had a cooked piece of popcorn hit somewhere besides the bowl. now, i will say that when you initially dump the popcorn kernals in, that about 6 pieces of it do fly out, but into the bowl. this is just because the hot air is blowing up, i merely scoop up and toss them back in, they are not hot at this point.4. i did mention i use a large bowl, this makes a lot of cooked popcorn, hence you will need a large bowl. while it it cooking, say maybe 2 minutes, i've never timed it.. this is when i melt some butter in the microwave, i haven't tried the butter in the warmer, i didn't want butter all over it and was leary it would even melt. so the popcorn is flowing out, i do give the machine a little tip towards the bowl near the end of the popping cycle to help move it in the right direction and so it doesn't overcook it. inevitably there is about 4 kernals that remain unpopped left in the machine,, this doesn't botther me, because i generally end up with more when i microwave it.5. unplug the machine.. or it will run forever, no off switch. which i am sure is a safety feature in itself. and who displays there popcorn popper on the counter for daily use, were not talking a coffee maker here that gets used daily.overall, very pleased with this purchase, no negatives for me regarding it. would buy again.


