1345766400
3.0
review/summary: Great for crepes, pizza, and searing meatreview/text: I live in a condo with an open kitchen, so when I have to cook something that's gonna smoke up the house, I try to do it out on my deck. Sometimes, I'll pull out my butane stove and use my stainless steel pan or carbon steel pan, but more often than not I'll pull out this cast iron griddle and plop it on my bbq. For example, this is how I use this griddle for ribeye on my grill...I'll turn both burners of my grill on full blast and leave the griddle in their with the bbq lid closed for a good 10 minutes, until everything reaches 700 degrees or so, then plop an oil-rubbed, seasoned steak on the griddle for about a minute per side to get a seriously beautiful sear on it. I'll turn down the heat, cover the bbq, and finish 'er off for a few minutes until I get perfect medium rare. Pull off the steak, but it on a cooling rack tented with foil, and while it rests, I'll toss a sliced clove of garlic and a sprig of rosemary onto the griddle, and a nice pat of butter (~1 Tbsp). The butter melts, the garlic softens, the rosemary releases its aromatics, all over a low-medium heat. It's a beautiful thing. After the steak's done resting, I'll brush or drizzle the rosemary garlic butter on the steak. Delicious. And most importantly, my condo doesn't smell like seared meat.I often use this griddle to cook bacon out on my bbq as well. Bacon and seared beef are like the two strongest, most persistent meat smells, after all.This griddle is also great for pancakes and crepes. Just make sure you use butter over medium heat (don't use high!), as butter has better release characteristics than most vegetable oils. I'll keep a folded up paper towel on a saucer of softened butter, and use it to rub the pan in between pancakes/crepes.This thing is also really awesome for pizzettas. Just don't get too ambitious with size or toppings, and it's excellent. Smaller pies (8" or so) fit nicely in this griddle. Preheat an oven and pan on the top rack to 500 or 550 degrees while the pie is being assembled. Slide the pie onto the griddle, switch from bake to broil and blast that sucker with all it's got, and you should end up with a nice, crispy pie with a blistered, slightly blackened crust. Yum. If you use too thin a crust and/or too many toppings, it becomes difficult to handle, and often the crust cannot handle all of the moisture from the toppings, so you end up with a leaky crust, resulting in caked on crap on the cast iron griddle. Caked on cheese is the worst, especially if it goes back under the broiler. Sometimes you get lucky and the cheese will scrape off in nice huge chunks, but other times the cheese is damn near impossible to remove. I just scrape away with abrasives, then reseason if necessary.Speaking of seasoning, the preseasoning on this pan is mediocre at best. Better to do few more coats of seasoning before using it for anything too "sticky" (e.g. eggs or fish). Or use if primarily for bacon for the first handful of uses. Once it's seasoned well, it's a great pan, especially for the price. And unlike teflon and other nonstick coatings, cast iron is safe and will last a lifetime.


