1357862400
5.0
review/summary: Surprising Dealreview/text: This works like a charm. I eat more hardboiled eggs than any others, and I hate to cook them on the stove - I'm never sure if I will over- or under-cook them. The shells come off easily with this. I'm as happy with this as I was with my old Oster.With this, you are not buying another appliance. It relies on the power from you microwave oven. So when it's done, it turns off. It cooks by not the amount of water you put in, but your microwave timer to shut the power off when they are ready. My first batch of hardboiled eggs I cooked at 10-minutes, and they came out perfectly. The shells come off easily, and you do not even need to poke a hole in it before cooking. And I've yet had one break open while cooking. I think the only way one would break open while cooking would be if the shell has a weak point, such as a fine crack.I would recommend this to anyone who has a microwave oven and loves hard- or soft-boiled eggs. Simplicity at it's best. And it was only nine bucks when I bought it.==================ADDENDUM: I'm not going to change my rating of this, but it does take some experimentation. With a regular egg cooker, you put the amount of water in that is used for soft-boiled or hard-boiled eggs, and they either shut off or buzz to let you know they're done. All the water evaporates.This cooking replies entirely on the wattage of your microwave oven, and your estimated cooking time. When your eggs are finished, you will still have pleanty of very hot water in the cooker. Be careful. They evidently put more thought into the aesthetics of the cooker than the safety.So, one must expect to experiment to get the eggs they want. I originally said that I took a chance and set it for ten minutes to get hard boil eggs, and they came out beautifully. But as I keep experimenting with the times, I discovered something I didn't expect. After cooking four eggs for my ten minute hardboiled egg supply, I quickly took them out of the oven and showered them with cold water until I was able to carry them to the fridge.Those four eggs did not come out as hard-boiled, but soft-boiled (though fairly excellent soft-boiled eggs).So in closing, plan to do some testing until you get your times right, including the cool-down times. When I got my hardboiled at ten minutes, I let them cool down normally.Gosh, I never thought I could write so much about an inexpensive egg-cooker.


