1354579200
4.0
review/summary: 4 days of using it, and its a really good valuereview/text: I was spending 6-9 dollars per glass to get organic juice from a local health food store. While I also own a Vitamix, I was hesitant to purchase other device to create health promoting drinks. The Vitamix is an amazing blender, but the flavors from juicing are far more pleasing to my palate than anything I ever created with my Vitamix. Granted, I didn't put extras like honey or agave, it was pretty much just flax and fruits and greens. Plus, I recently read that if you have digestion issues, I have GERD and EE, that the fiber could actually aggravate your problem, which it often did. Granted, I still need to kick the Pepsi habit. Yeah, I know its bad for me, and its by far my biggest vice, but I need to phase it out, which I'm currently doing.Any who, after much research, I went with the most affordable Breville as a start in my juicing journey, after being convinced by two people at my local juice bar, that I should go in on the low end, to make sure that juicing is something I'll stay with, and at the lower cost, it won't be as bad should I not follow through.On to my product review...Easy to clean. It breaks down quickly, and the parts seem pretty solid. The screen can be a pain to clean, but I've used a soft bristled toothbrush to clean it, and seems to do the job in the crevices I can't get with just a quick rinse, and gentle enough to not harm the screen. I've read several reviews about the screen being a pain to clean, and it can be, but the toothbrush thing works for me. Its a screen, and things will get embedded in there, but it just takes a bit of effort to clean it.Seems to produce a fair amount of juice. I have nothing to compare it to, but plan on buying a masticating juicer in the near future, with the idea of comparing the two, and keeping the winner.As far as noise goes, I've read several complaints that its too loud. What did you expect it to do, be quiet like a toaster? Is your blender quiet? When you're not processing anything, it hums. However, when you're juicing, of course its loud, but not as loud as my Vitamix for sure. Perhaps some people had a different expectation of how loud it should, or would, be, but consider what its doing, and that should explain the noise.Space. Sure, it takes up a bit of space, but what appliance doesn't? More tall than wide, but I keep it out on my counter because I use it every day.I've had no problems juicing greens: romaine, parsley, kale, and cabbage, so far. Carrots and greens seem to leave the most residue in the screen, but that's to be expected, as I use carrots a lot, and greens are more stringy than other veggies, other than maybe celery. The pulp also comes out, as one other reviewer compared it to, similar to the consistency of Playdoh.Is it perfect, no, but what do you expect? There's been times I chunk or two have been not fully processed, but those chunks aren't that big, and if you push harder on the plunger to quickly juice something, it seems that's when it's missed some parts. I try to leave the product in as large a piece as the chute can handle, and slowly and evenly press down on the plunger. Seems to also produce the most juice, at least in my experience. I've made a full measuring cup (included with the Breville) without having to change or wash the screen. In fact, I've made well over that, without having to change the screen. Some produce seems to produce more juice than others, and greens definitely don't juice as well as apples, carrots, celery, and the like, especially in relation to their size. If anything, the container filling up with processed produce quicker than the screen gets gunked up.Do not juice berries, bananas, or other soft fruits, as you won't get much from them, but that's just common sense. I try to juice what I don't like to eat, or things that its easier for me to juice, rather than cook and eat, or I don't like to eat raw, such as broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower. I look at the juicer as a nutritional supplement more than anything else.I really don't understand the major complaints in some of these reviews. Don't expect BMW reliability and performance, when you're buying a Hyundai. If you understand that you're buying at a lower price point, then your expectations should also be lowered a bit, and you'll appreciate this more. Also, the enzymes aren't getting killed. The juice isn't in there long enough for this to happen anymore so than in any other machine. The juice doesn't stay in the machine cooking, is released very quickly, and comes out the same temp as the produce I'm pitching in there. And don't pay attention to those that complain about foam. It goes away once you pour the juice into a glass, and should only be an issue if your drinking straight from the receptacle.When I buy an Omega masticating juicer, or something comparable, perhaps my view of this machine will change, but for 99 bucks, it is worth every penny. Staying, or getting healthy isn't easy or cheap, but its worth it. Just like everything else that is of value in our lives.Bottom line for me is, if you're looking to step into the world of juicing, but aren't looking to drop over 200 bucks right away, try this one out. If you like it, keep it. If you don't use it enough, you only lost 100 bucks. And if you want to step up to a supposedly better machine, do it. At least you'll know better what you're looking for.


