1356652800
5.0
review/summary: Love this juicer...great dealreview/text: I wanted to wait a bit before reviewing this to make sure it would hold up. We have had it now for about 2 or 3 months, so not forever, but so far so good. We love it. We are still using it on an almost daily basis.I was a bit concerned after reading some reviews (AFTER ordering it) about the motor being directly underneath the basket and getting wet and dying. However, at least so far, this has not posed any problem for us. I am always careful to remove the entire top part (basket and plastic container for pulp) together at once after turning the machine off, and nothing has ever dripped down inside that way. I think maybe if you tried to take it apart before taking the top part off that could happen.As far as other complaints of the pulp being wet...there might be some validity to that. I can't really say, because I have not used other juicers (this is our first) and I am sure that there are some super-juicers out there that do a better job of getting every last drop of juice out of the fruit/veggie. I also do understand some reviewers' complaints about not having any variation of speed--it is true that it can be rather messy, and soft fruits like strawberries are even messier and yes, leave a wetter pulp. It does seem to work best for things like carrots, sweet potatoes, etc. That being said, with fruits like lemons and oranges it works fine, no problem.Are there details that could be better? I'm sure there are. But for $100, this was a great price and a great investment, and I feel we are definitely getting returns on our investment. We are getting way more vitamins from fresh fruits and veggies than we ever were before, and have discovered some truly delicious combinations. I just crave these veggie juices sometimes, more than I ever crave raw vegetables whole. So if you are looking to start juicing but you don't have $200+ to spend on one of the fancier models, go for this one. It works for us!!


