1361491200
3.0
review/summary: Great filter, but poor design, and the indicator light is just silly nonsensereview/text: I bought two Brita filtering pitchers after moving to Sacramento, where the city water tastes like an over-chlorinated public swimming pool. BLECH! One taste, and I was out the door to go buy water filtering pitchers. I purchased Brita on the recommendation of friends.THE GOOD NEWS:The filter works wonderfully well in removing the horrible chlorine flavor from the water. Met my needs perfectly. Five stars for the taste of the water.I have not had any problems with charcoal granules leaking from the filter into my water, so I would guess that Brita has addressed that issue.THE BAD NEWS:The bad news all centers on this particular model pitcher.1. The lid does not fit tightly. It just sits on top, and is easily dislodged.2. If the pitcher is filled very full, and then is moved before the water drains down through the filter, the handle acts as an overflow mechanism. Any water that is sloshed goes straight into the handle, and down out the bottom of the handle, onto the countertop, the floor, your feet, or whatever happens to be in the way. I have to leave the pitcher in the sink until at least a couple of inches have drained through the filter and into the bottom of the pitcher.3. The lid has an indicator that supposedly tells you when to change the filter. The truth of the matter is that the indicator has NO way of knowing how much water has run through the filter. It is in the the lid, with no contact with the filter. It is not in electronic communication with the filter. The indicator light is apparently triggered by some sort of timing device. After a while it turns yellow, and a while after that it turns red. If it really knew what state the filter was in, I would imagine that it would immediately go back to red after being reset if the filter truly needed to be changed. But no - it doesn't do that. It just merrily starts its little cycle over again. I discovered this fact within weeks of buying the pitcher. The indicator light claimed I needed to change the filter, but the water still tasted perfectly good, with no hint of chlorine taste. Hmmm... I reset it. Surprise! The indicator said that my filter was in perfect working order.It appears to me that the indicator light is just a gimmick to get the consumer to buy more filters. It's just silly. I just change the filter when I notice that the water is starting to taste a bit like chlorine. The light wouldn't know the difference if the pitcher was getting refilled once a day, once a week, or once a month.My other pitcher is theBrita Slim Water Filter Pitcher, and I have no problems with it at all.My recommendation? Brita filters are great! This model pitcher is not.


