1352505600
1.0
review/summary: Watch yourself and your kidsreview/text: Spoiler alert:There is more than one way to read a story; more than one level of interpretation, implied and/or inferred. There are different aspects of a story one can stress.One might point to a story where the "Father" gives over his "son" to shoulder the sins of the world in order to save us so that we may live. Sounds like serious stuff until the story ends with the "son" arriving in the world via a red sleigh like Santa Claus on Christmas morning.I had to giggle. It is a children's book after all.I suppose I could be offended and take this story as seriously as many people do but just because the author values pride and individual choice above fairness, politeness, no war or hunger. . . well, that's up to her. But the fact that she feels the need to set up a society with faults that don't follow from any reason is troubling. One could suggest that pride and individualism (and the like) are right-wing values while being fair and polite (and the like) are left-wing values but few parents teach their children to be rude and unfair; values such as these are best left to dubious ideologies, as if larger society shouldn't be valued as highly as family. When all is said and done, there is not enough depth of religious or philosophical ideas for me to take it seriously . . . only a straw-man society that has flaws that are as unlikely as its strengths.But wait, there's more . . .One main rule for the main character is that he must not discuss with anybody including parents and elders, what goes on behind closed doors with the old man who is his trainer. What might go on in this room? Here's what we do know:"Move to the bed, and lie face down. Remove your tunic first" . . . "What are you going to do sir?" . . . . He placed his hands on Jonas's bare back.Now, I was warned that there were some surprises, some of them disturbing, but this situation and language seems to pass right by people. This is a teachable moment but what might our children learn from the words as written?


