1357171200
4.0
review/summary: It's... this... THING! Which Tells TIME!!review/text: My previous alarm clock, a Durabrand-something-something, had succumbed to a freak accident which involved two brawling cats and a poorly-placed glass of Diet Sierra Mist. After I stopped laughing at my doused cats, I started telling everyone I knew what I wanted for Christmas - a brand-spanking new alarm clock. And as alarm clock mania knows no loyalty, I didn't specify any particular brand, but LO! looky-looky!! Here's me, on Christmas morning, staring in awe at my brand new Sony ICF-C318 Clock Radio Dual Alarm Clock!! I'd have preferred the Carbine-Action Two-Hundred-Shot Range Model with the scope, but I'd have probably just shot my eye out with that one.I open the box... My new alarm clock is thoughtfully wrapped in plastic - further suspending my impending indifference, I guess, to something - ok, come on now, we all know this to be true - I will come to despise. And there it is. Mine's actually white, not black, but I assure you, other than that, they could be twins. I turn it over in my hands a few times, thinking, meh, ok. Then I look at the box again. 'Dream Machine'? I have a bit of a problem with that. Shouldn't it be called a 'Dream DESTROYER Machine'?? Essentially, that's what it is, when it comes right down to it. I mean, to me, a 'Dream Machine' would be a 2013 Buick Enclave, cause I've always had a 'thing' for Buicks. How can an alarm clock be a 'Dream Machine'? WEIRD. Anyways, I begin setting up my alarm clock...WHOA. No need!! I plug it in, and this smartass alarm clock already knows what time it is. Well, sort of. It was an hour off, cause apparently it assumes everyone who buys this lives in the Eastern Time Zone, and, well, I'm just a simple midwestern gal here in Minneapolis, so I had to take the alarm clock down a notch and change it back an hour. But it DID know the date, I'll give it that. It seems awfully superfluous - and I cannot stress that enough - to have a TIME ZONE BUTTON? - on an alarm clock. REALLY? Who in the hell travels with a $14.99 alarm clock? (Yeah, hey, mine was only $14.99 - I saw the receipt from Target, so, heads up there, folks, maybe think about buying it there, save the shipping costs too.) Back to the Time Zone Button. Seriously? WHY!!! If you travel with your $14.99 alarm clock just because it has a TIME ZONE BUTTON, you're a weirdo, and you know it. And come on, a Daylight Savings button? Are we as a society REALLY that lazy, that twice a year, we can't manually change the time on our alarm clocks? And what about Arizona residents, who apparently think Daylight Savings time has something to do with witchcraft and sorcery, so they just don't do it? I feel sorry for those poor Arizonians who buy the Sony ICF-C318... They get the shaft, man. This is gonna mess them up twice a year, just because Sony wanted to get all fancy-schmancy and put yet another superfluous button on their alarm clock, so now all the other alarm clock makers are smacking their heads, going AW CRAP! We gotta keep up with them now and add two buttons to OUR clocks!! Sony, I see what you did there.... cheeky bastards.Ok, so now the clock's set up, and yeah, cool, two settings for the alarm - buzzer, radio. Won't go into too much detail there, cause they're both pretty standard. The buzzer goes BUZZ!! BUZZ!! BUZZ!! and the radio, well, c'mon, a radio's a radio. It'd be pretty sweet if I could find an alarm clock that went BUZZ!! BUZZ!! BUZZ!! ~AND~ woke me up to sound bites of Mystery Science Theater 3000, but now that really WOULD be a 'Dream Machine', wouldn't it??Bottom line, folks, IT'S AN ALARM CLOCK. It's nothing fancy, really. Oh, the battery back-up -- ok, cool, that's a nice feature. In all honesty, though, if my power ever DOES go out, does my boss REALLY need to know my alarm clock has this feature?? Nah. This is gonna be my dirty little secret, muah-ha-ha.Took off one star because I feel sorry for the Arizonians. :(


