1356912000
3.0
review/summary: Too loud & Uses Water Too Rapidlyreview/text: I did some research on which humidifier would be best for my application and settled on this one. It was out of stock practically everywhere which suggested there might be good reason why it seems to sell so well. Anyway, the main attractions for me were (a) it's marketed as being very quiet, (b) you can set the desired level of humidity and (c) the water tanks should last 24 hours between fill ups.First, it's not that quiet, even on the lowest fan setting. If background noise irritates you in any way, you will most certainly notice this thing running. Even with other things going on like TV, radio, general chatter, etc. the noise from this thing is very noticeable. With the fan running at the lowest speed, it was impossible to sleep with this thing running in the bedroom. This may just be because I am VERY conscious of background noise. Some people are, some people aren't. Your mileage may vary.Second, this thing certainly does pump out the water into the air. Set at 'two droplets', I had water streaming down all my windows to the extent I had to use copious amounts of kitchen towel to mop up. It was that bad! I do live where the outside temperatures during the winter months are often in the single digits. Using the 'one droplet' setting had little to no effect on the amount of condensation.Third, even set at the lowest humidity level and lowest fan speed, this thing went through both tanks in about 4 hours. You will need a fairly large sink and adjustable/flexible faucet to fill the tanks, so be aware of that. The tanks are decent handles, but they're pretty heavy when full.Other bad points include there's no easy way to tell how full or empty the tanks are until they're almost out and as it uses water from the tanks, it makes a 'glug glug' sound. This happens to sound exactly like my cat throwing up a hairball, which added to the distraction of using this thing.The good points are:1. It is pretty easy to set-up and use.2. It shuts off automatically when the room has reached the desired level of humidity.3. It shuts off automatically when the tanks have run dry.4. It seems well made and sturdy, although I don't think any part of it would survive a fall onto a hard surface.The unit does come with some standard casters for ease of moving it around, but then the manual warns you not to move the unit (with the tanks in place). So why give it casters? Ugh!So, overall it's pretty decent for the money. However, if you live somewhere where the air is dry, dry, dry in the winter and the temperatures outside are low, low, low, then make sure you have plenty of kitchen towel on hand to mop up your window condensation. Also, it's nowhere near silent (like a ceiling fan), so don't be fooled by "Quietcare" and "30 percent quieter than other tower models".Happy humidifying.


