1351987200
5.0
review/summary: Best machine at this price point!review/text: If you want an espresso machine between $85 and $200, BUY THIS ONE! There's a reason there are over 1,000 reviews on this machine, because it's the one to buy. When you get to these "15 bar" espresso machines that basically all look like this, you probably aren't going to get much variation on the product. There are DeLonghi and other brands that are probably using the same internal parts for different external designs and yet they will charge two or three times the price. I have owned this machine for two years now. It is still working, still making great espresso.Some people review that they had problems and there is poor customer service. I can't speak for that because mine still works! I do have a leaking boiler though, but I don't think you will get around that and its not a problem as far as I'm concerned. It's not the kind of leak that's all over the counter or anything. This is merely excess water dripping after you have turned off the machine and it drips into your shot glasses or drip tray. Approximately one ounce of water is dripped after making the espresso. Most of the water is dripping while steaming. If you turn the machine directly to off and don't steam anything you may drip half an ounce. Just leave your shot glasses there!Cleaning is very easy. After I make my espresso and steam my milk, I run the steam wand while cleaning with a towel (5 sec), then I dump my used espresso grounds and rings in warm water and set aside my portafilter to dry. Lastly I rinse my steaming carafe and shot glasses. I rarely use soap because I do it right away and they rinse clean.Every couple weeks I clean out the screens which takes me about 5 minutes. My screens are rarely clogged as I use filtered water in the machine and wipe them with a towel after use.As for value, this is the cheapest machine that will actually give you a good crema. The flavor is 8 out of 10 compared to a professional machine. I would not spend any more for a machine like this. If I upgrade the next would be theGaggia 14101 Classic Espresso Machine, Brushed Stainless Steelas my research has shown it is much closer to commercial models and will probably give you a 9 out of 10 in flavor. After that, I would just skip up to the $1,500-$3,000 commercial models. It's that simple, don't waste your money on anything else. This machine is the best for the $85-$200 range and it happens to be the cheapest!!Tips for good espresso:1. Get a burr type grinder. For cheap I suggest the one I got:Cuisinart CBM-18N Programmable Conical Burr Mill. Any good barista will tell you a burr grinder is required for a good consistent espresso! I know it's $100 but you are buying this great espresso machine for only $85-$100!2. For this machine use, the finest grind setting.3. Give it a good tamp, you need a tightly packed portafilter to allow enough pressure to build with this machine. If it comes out without a good reddish crema, you didn't tamp enough.4. Run about 1-2 ounces of hot water through the portafilter to pre-heat it.


