1352160000
5.0
review/summary: Keurig B40 Elite Brewing Systemreview/text: Our first Keurig was the Keurig B31BLACK Mini Brewer Black. We originally bought it a couple years ago to test it out and see how good/bad it was and to see if it would be around for very long or if it was just a fad and the k-cups would become a pain to find and it was on sale at the time. We were happy with it, it was quick to brew and easy. Just turn it on, pour water in the top, lift the latch and let the water drain into the machine, insert a k-cup, lower the latch, place the mug just used to fill it under the spout and press the blinking blue button which then turns red to brew.When it was time to get another machine we decided to upgrade to the Elite. We are even happier this time around with this machine. Just fill the resevoir(spelling?)- the night before if you wanted to - push the power button, let it heat, lift the latch, insert a k-cup, close the latch, push a size button and walk away to shower or finish brushing your teeth or doing your hair in the AM. Then if youre in a hurry grab the mug on your way out the door. But if your not in a hurry It will stay on/ready to heat/pour your next cup for a couple hours even and then turn itself off automatically. We especially like this one because we can fit our travel mugs and Larger coffee cups under the spout to fill up directly without having to use a separate cup. The other bonus not a bunch of buttons or steps to program or figure out.We havent encountered any downsides as of yet. Its not much taller than the Keurig Mini so it fit in the same spot as our first machine, we just had to clear a little more space to the sides which was no biggie because it was just spices next to the stove that were in the way. Theres also a seperate filter thing you can buy if the machine didnt come with one that will allow you to use regular ground coffee in the same spot the K-cup gets inserted in if you cant seem to find your favorite coffee flavor/style in the K-cups. Anyway that is all that I can think of to say about it right now.Take care everyone,~Cyn


