1356220800
1.0
review/summary: Too expensive and very fragilereview/text: I bought this juicer after reading lots of reviews thinking the bad ones are just coincidental. I went into Wheatgrass wholeheartedly, growing trays and trays of it, reading a book and articles, and thought I need a durable machine I can extract all that quantity and get the best quality in the most convenient way. So the price of little over 250 did not deter me.From day 1, I began hearing cracking noises and thought this is how it is supposed to be since I did not see any physical signs of damage on the parts.Cleaning it though is not really that easy because it takes time and lots of water! 5 parts to clean, and the filter s the hardest one (to thoroughly clean all the wheatgrass residue). Taking all that into account doesn't make juicing wheatgrass a whole lot of fun.After about a month of using it, when took out the parts for cleaning as I do every morning, I realized what had happened: The black cone that holds the screen/filter cracked in several places in line with the filter nudges that hold it into that cone - about 2,3 cracks across the cone. This is caused by pressure of masticating the grass into the screen. So all those "benefits" of the machine supposedly juicing carrots, root vegetables, etc, I can't imagine it would really hold through it without breaking.It has also jammed a couple of times by having the wheatgrass wrapped around the auger so I had to take it apart and release it. In short this is more laborious than it should be. This is clearly a flaw in design!I contacted the company because I intended to keep the machine and have them maybe ship a newly designed piece (hoping they know it's a design flaw). Never heard back from them. I guess they know about the problem, and will replace the same piece only to those unfortunate who get in touch with them and complain about this. This is a strategy of many companies; they will keep replacing whatever until the end of the warranty, then you are hung on to dry...I've decided, I am not going to be one of those, and returned it to Amazon.


