1356393600
5.0
review/summary: Have used a Capresso 565 for 7 years now - every day.review/text: I purchased my first coffee grinder 30 years ago and have experienced much of the frustration that you read about in the reviews of MOST of the other coffee bean grinders. For some reason coffee grinders are often poorly designed and of horrid quality. Especially the cheap grinders are certainly no bargain. When I read the reviews of the cheap grinders it brings back "flashbacks" of extreme frustration (even some of the pricier units are garbage), noisy, messy and ultimately they break and are chucked into the garbage :-(Then I bought THIS beautiful burr grinder (I've had the 565 for 7 years now).This little gem is REALLY different (and infinitely better) than ALL the others. This is an absolutely wonderful coffee grinder in EVERY way. Coffee tastes better -- there is a "night and day" difference in flavor. And hey, if we're going through the trouble of grinding our own beans then what's the point if we don't get the best flavor for our work?Grinders simply don't get any better than this in quality (not at ANY price). I have used this same grinder for a number of years now. It is used every single day, and after years of service it still grinds perfect coffee.It's super quiet. I don't need to worry about waking my children when I grind beans every morning for my wife and I. The unit is super simple to use. It's easy to clean. The grinds are SO much more consistent than the cheaper grinders. The grinds are delivered neatly into a drawer that you can completely remove with ease to place the grounds in your coffee machine (mine is a french press). I also like the large (and attractive) bean hopper that makes it easy to fill in the morning when I'm still half asleep.I like the fact that it grinds the beans without creating heat that cheaper grinders produce (that diminish the flavor of the ground beans in the cheaper grinders).This is an extremely high quality grinder. Very well designed for ease of use. It's also so very easy to keep clean. I've experienced none of the mess of those poorly designed cheapo grinders that create static on the grounds. The machine itself is heavy-duty, (built solid as a rock) and finely crafted to last a lifetime. You don't see many machines crafted with the quality of this grinder. It's also VERY attractive in the kitchen. Small. Compact. Nice style & appearance. Very functional to use.One last thing I DEEPLY appreciate is the fact that the grinds are of consistent size. I use a Bodum french press. The Bodum that I have, has a VERY small size screen on the press that allows me to grind my grounds to a "fine" size on the Capresso 565.03. There isn't the "bean dust" that is created by cheaper grinders (that make them useless for using with a french press).All-in-all if you are looking for a high quality grinder that will last a lifetime, and one that will allow you to enjoy the absolute BEST out of your beans, then look no farther than this wonderful grinder.A finely crafted precision machine in every way!


