1360972800
1.0
review/summary: Owned for 2 hours, returningreview/text: Allow me to preface this review by stating that I have only owned base model Hoover vacuums in the past, and as such I am comparing this base model Hoover to similar products. My previous Hoover recently stopped working so having been please with that one, I went online to find another similar, base model, bagged Hoover upright to replace it. I thought this would be the one. I was very wrong.I received the vacuum this morning and immediately assembled it. Upon assembly I noted the poor design and poor materials compared to my older Hoover, but figured that's just how things are now. Then I plugged it in to try it out.Having moved the vacuum no more than 3 feet the plug immediately started falling, (not being pulled, FALLING), out of the outlet and sent a shower of sparks flying everywhere. I turned the machine off, went over the to the outlet, replaced the plug and the same thing happened again. I attempted to bend the prongs so they would stay in place, no dice. I tried another outlet. Same thing. On top of this there was a strong burning smell coming from the inside of the vacuum as though it might catch fire.Aside from all of this, the little bit I did manage to vacuum, it seemed to have adequate suction.Compared to other Hoovers this is very poorly made.It is missing the flap that covers the hole where the hose comes out to use the attachments and sends dirt flying up when you remove it.The hose itself is not only far shorter, but far less flexible than models from just a few years ago, to the point that you can't have the vacuum even one step above or below the stair you may be trying to clean as the hose will not reach that far. Also, the top end of the hose does not swivel like on older models, so there is no flexibility in how it is used.The front cover is nearly impossible to replace once you have it off.The electrical cord is far shorter than they used to be (and also at least in my experience will not stay in any outlet).I could not be more disappointed and am sorry to say I will not be buying another Hoover.


