1359417600
4.0
review/summary: Good high output humidifier.review/text: I've had this humidifier for almost a month now, and it is working quite well. I have an approximately 2,000 sq ft house with a very open floor plan, so I bought this to place centrally and humidify the entire house. I live in Colorado where the air is very dry, and it brought my indoor humidity from 11% up to 35% in 2-3 days, and is now maintaining that. Now that I have reached a balanced point, I typically just need to fill one of the containers in the morning, and one in the evening.Pros:- Can put out a high volume of moisture fairly rapidly.- Humidity sensor seems to work pretty well. Once I hit my target level, I turned the sensor down until the unit shut itself off, and left the level there. It now turns itself on as needed.Cons:- On High it is very loud. It is a trade off you make to put a lot of humidity in the air quickly. On low it sounds pretty much like a low fan. A constant drone that I don't mind.- The shape of the water canisters is not ideal. I fill mine in the bathtub without much trouble, but when you turn them upside down to fill, you have to balance them a bit because of the sloped handle they rest on.- You cannot see the water level in the canisters, except for a small window at the very bottom. I determine how full mine are by lifting them up slightly and feeling how heavy they are.I'm happy with this product. It's not perfect, but it does a good job. I recommend picking up a cheap humidity monitor so you can see where you are at. I got this one from Acu-Rite, works just fine: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B004K8RF10/I wouldn't put this in a bedroom, it is designed for large rooms, and works well for me as a whole house humidifier. If you have a closed off floor plan, it might not work as well for you, though.Edit: After writing this review I came back and saw all of the negative reviews this has gotten recently, and was surprised. The "Most Helpful Review" has some good tips that might help some people alleviate issues they are having. For example:-Flip the filter every few days.-Make sure you refill one empty water canister before both run out. I check mine in the morning, when I get home from work, and right before bed. I suspect that people who's filters are drying out may be letting the water canisters completely run out of water before refilling both at once.-I use a splash of a BestAir Humidifier Bacteriostatic Water Treatment in the containers once every couple of days. I have not noticed any mold or build up. http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000CMHLMG/Hope that helps.


