1356134400
1.0
review/summary: Facile in how it deals with its themesreview/text: I read this book because a young adult friend of mine recently started a philosophical discussion using it as a springboard. I was immediately disappointed in the overly simplistic way in which the author puts together her ideas. However, it was a quick read and I was able to finish it easily within a couple of days. It was a stark contrast to the book by a Japanese author which I had just finished reading.Obviously, a person who writes this sort of book has an agenda to comment on her society - to warn about trends that she sees afoot, and to offer some ideas for potential solutions. That's what visual artists would call the "grand narrative." I also imagine that there is a "lesser narrative" as well - that is to say it may be something of an allegory for some aspect of her own relationship to the world.I can see why this book spoke to the heart of my friend. I compare it to a similar book (and series) I read when I was young - the "White Mountains" by John Christopher (pen name for Samuel Youd). Certain very caring and smart young people who find that they don't really fit in, here in the culture of the USA, latch on to these kind of stories as being those which might possibly provide guidance for them as they seek to navigate their social problems. I just wish that the authors of such books would have more of a sense of nuance of the problems and possible solutions for these young people before they set pen to paper - that is, if they really are trying to serve the needs of that type of kid.I can see how Lois Lowry ticked off all the boxes when she was designing the plot of "the Giver" - she was careful to cater to all the preconceptions (prejudices) within the sensibilities of the American reader population. She even included a Christ-like figure in the book. Because of this practice, I feel the book ends up as a hollow and empty shell of what it could have been. The author does not seek to challenge her readers and share new insights, but instead her book becomes a perfectly resounding part of the echo chamber of the way that left-leaning American thinkers see the framework of the problems of society around them.However, I suppose this is exactly why it is popular, and why it has become an award winning novel. People will only devote the time to reading things which confirm what they already feel about how the world works.Children's novels need to use simple language, but there's no need for simplistic ideas. I would have also appreciated a more realistic character arc for Jonas. It's odd that his big decision to leave his community comes out of nowhere and becomes decided upon in his mind over the scope of three or four pages of the book.


