1352332800
3.0
review/summary: Great little machine - Only a couple flaws.review/text: So this little grinder is exactly what I wanted. It's compact, has a nice capacity hopper, and can do espresso grinds. However, there are two flaws that I can see with it, one of which is terribly minor, the other of which can be a deal-breaker, depending on what type of coffee you want.But first:PROs:* Easy to use, easy to clean.* Decently sized hopper - about 1/3 of a 1lb bag...* Small countertop footprint* Intuitive dial for grind fineness.CONs:* Unable to thoroughly (dishwasher) clean ALL of the grinder parts.* Grind size may NOT be fine enough for some espresso machines, and certainly not for turkish coffee.Let me elaborate on the second CON there. I use a hand-level La Pavoni espresso machine. If a coffee is oily, then the finest grind is actually *TOO* fine, and this grinder works perfectly. However, if I find myself using a slightly dry bean, then I find the finest grind to be too coarse, making me want to run it through a hand-grinder. Also, for making Turkish (Arabic) coffee, the finest grind is not the "powdered sugar" fine that you'll want. (Most people use a hand-grinder for Turkish or just wing it, so no big...)So keep that in mind if you are buying for a really fine grind. You may want to really examine the oiliness of the coffee you are using before purchasing this unit. I still give it 4/5 stars because it hits the ball out of the park so well in most aspects.....including price!EDIT: I am knocking down the review on this to 3/5 stars because of the product description. "The finest setting is ideal for preparing Turkish coffee" - No. The finest setting gets a grind around a fine cornmeal, which is not fine enough for Turkish. It's not fine enough for some espresso beans. The unit is not adjustable. It's served me well for a year, but after getting more experience under my belt, and wanting to branch out my coffee tastes some more, this little unit won't do the trick.


