1361232000
4.0
review/summary: The Classic! Some Quaility Control Issuesreview/text: I really like the shape of the Kitchenaid mixer. I can't stand the shape of the other copycats mixers out there. They are really ugly compared to the Kitchenaid.I had to send one back because the silver band was misaligned that could of caused a very dangerous situation to occur, possibly years later as the on/off switch would probably deteriorate.I had used it for awhile and noticed that the on/off switch felt "funny". It didn't feel like it was closing though the machine would shut off. It took me awhile to realize that the silver band around the machine was poorly placed resulting in part of the gap in the machine where the switch protruded to be partially covered resulting in the on/off switch not going completely back in a locked position.I realize the horror that the machine could have accidentally started while you have your fingers on the attachment!!! I am glad I noticed the band was off. I know the manual says to unplug the machine whenever you are finished mixing but that is totally unrealistic to do all the time. I took one star off of this because of this dangerous situation and poor quality control. You know this machine could even be better if Kitchenaid took some Edward Demmings courses. The reason why I say this is the potential of this machine.The machine makes a lot of noise when it mixes. It makes this loud grinding type of sound. It is not a quiet machine. Also, the silver band is loose on my machine. Apparently, they just wrap it around then screw it in the back. You can see the band is not making complete contact with the surface around the machine in certain areas. You would think it would be glued down. Where there is a gap, unfortunately, is near where I put in flour and it goes into this gap sometimes. Meaning if there was glue there, it ain't gonna stick now!This machine is quite big and is not really made for single batches of "stuff", and seems oversized for single recipes. Where it does shine is when you have to double or triple up, but I sense maybe even 1 1/2 batches might also work. Other areas where it shines is where there is a thick gooey mix with lots of solid stuff in it like fruit cake, even a single batch works here. Anyone who has mixed fruit cake knows how hard it is. This machine handle it with perfect ease.I use it mainly to make bread and it does a single batch (about 3 cups) of kneading quite well with the kneader attachment. But you have to get the dough the right consistency before letting her rip for about 5-10 minutes. Sure beats hand kneading!Everything else seems to be well-made. From the SS bowl to the plastic bowl shield. The SS bowl snaps in solid and the handles and switches also feel solid. I always admire the shape of this machine when I put it away.


