1357862400
4.0
review/summary: Good size, works well, easy to cleanreview/text: My first Amazon review. I have used reviews from Amazon faithful to make many purchases over the years and figured it was time to give back. So here goes...This is my first skillet so I cannot compare to others. Also, I have only owned the Presto and used it for a week or so... but I will try an update my review at a later date.Negatives: Will start with the bad in order of annoyance. The following is definitely true, although these issues do not bother me too much as it might some. The number one annoyance is not having rubber feet and sliding, I am not sure you can add your own rubber either given the nature of the way the 'feet' are designed. Very thin an curvy but I will probably try if I can find something from Home Dept. I think this will not be dangerous as long as you are aware of this issue and I haven't noticed it as much when cooking. Although, if kids are flying around the house this might be a concern. Furthermore, be prepared to tighten them up with a screw driver often and I mean weekly if used regularly. They will become loose. It does get hotter on the sides than the middle. Very noticeable when cooking beacon, the middle pieces take longer. I can't tell yet if this will affect other types of foods or cooking styles. Everything else is solid from my perspective. I don't use the lid except as a dust free cover so I can't speak to it's quality or effect on cooking. This might change in the future as I find news ways to use this item.Strengths: I like the coating it seems thick and strong. It tells you how to 'break it in' which I have noticed is often lacking from other similar cooking items. Suggestion from family members I have found helpful... Just wipe it down with warm water for most cleaning which seems to work well and take 2 minutes. Probably not a good idea if using only occasionally but I think this would help with the lifetime on the cooking surface. It seems to heat fast but I feel you need to cook at a slightly higher temp (or higher end of the temp range in the instructions) than normal. Like I already mentioned, easy to clean. Wipe out the excess grease and clean out in the sink with a sponge and warm water/soap (if desired). I have used it for burgers and breakfast foods so far and works very well, fried pork chops planed for tonight. Great for fried eggs which I always struggle to flip without breaking when cooking 'over-easy'. The size is perfect. I thought it might be to large for a couple but ended up a great fit and better too large than too small in my book. If I was still single I would probably want a slightly smaller one.Summary: It seems very solid at this point and is becoming my favorite cooking device despite the negatives. I use it for breakfast, grilling, and frying so far so I haven't needed (or plan) to use the cover. It cooks great, fast to clean, and served its purpose. I leave it out on the counter as we use it so much and saves cabinet space.


