1356307200
5.0
review/summary: Awesome Moka makerreview/text: People confuse espresso and moka as being the same thing, which because of some differences in how water is heated and passed through the grinds does cause some differences in taste and character. That out of the way, this makes a good enough moka that I didn't miss my espresso maker anymore, particularly when I compared the effort to make the two different styles of coffee.The product is made of very durable aluminium and manufactured in Italy to very high specifications of quality, a welcome change from the flood of low quality Chinese products we US citizens have to wade through. The bottom chamber holds the water and screws into the top chamber against the metal filter and rubber gasket providing a solid seal. A tip is to tighten the bottom till its snug, and then give it one more quarter turn, this gives a very tight fit upon heating as the metal and rubber will expand with the heat to finalize the fit. The top is easily figured out by the picture and handling except it has another quality that most ignore. When you first get the moka maker its very shiny on the inside, after a few uses it starts to dull with a light brown tone having banished the aluminium shine. DO NOT SCRUB THIS AWAY!!! That brownish tint to the aluminium is proof that your moka maker has been properly seasoned to get the best taste possible. All you need to do in the cleaning of this is to rinse it with tap water, though at the rubber seal on the bottom, take a little extra time and use a toothbrush there to make sure no grit or grime is present when you set it to dry since that will greatly extend the life of your seal and insure a reliable fit for your next brew. Typically it takes me less than a minute to clean mine after use.There is a little cup that fits into the bottom chamber that acts like the coffee basket, just load it up with grinds and drop it into the bottom chamber, clear any grinds along the edge to prevent it from coming into contact with the rubber seal and you're good. The use of grinds then comes into consideration, you can use a espresso grind or a somewhat finer than drip coffee grind for your base, some experimentation suited to your taste will be necessary. I grind my own beans (which if you haven't done yet I highly recommend) and use a couple notches above espresso for the fineness of the grind, as this lets a great deal of flavor from the coffee come through without unduly impeding the flow of the steam rising up through it, and I would definitely not recommend turkish grind settings.A quick word of caution based upon a friend's experience and that is do not add spices to the coffee grinds in order to make some sort of flavored moka, in particular cinnamon. Typically spices in powder form do not react the same way to hot steam the way the coffee grinds do, and frequently will clog the fine mesh filter the steam travels through, my friend ruined her moka maker this way by trying to make cinnamon flavored moka. If you must flavor your moka, use either flavored beans or after brew flavorings.Finally the taste the Moka Maker produces is different than a espresso, its got a softer tone to it and a richer flavor where my palate is concerned, and while a good espresso is still a joy of mine, the moka maker's coffee is actually preferable to me when I want something different than my usual fare from my press maker.


