1360022400
5.0
review/summary: Absolutely love this thingreview/text: The instructions that came with it were a little scant, but there's no shortage of decent material online on brewing techniques. I use a Hario hand grinder, and I've found a setting of about 8 to work best. Heat some water up to just-about-boiling, pour it into the reservoir, fill up the basket, set the basket in, twist the top, and boom... good to go. Takes about 5 minutes to heat the water, then another 4-ish to create enough steam to push the coffee up through the spout and into the top reservoir. I've had some problems getting a bad seal on this, and water bubbles out the sides, but I believe this results from not cleaning the grounds off the top of the basket entirely; a clean basket lip, and tightening the top till it's snug (but not too tight) will do the trick. I go for medium heat on this thing, and then cool it off with a cold bar towel once it's done to prevent the more bitter parts from coming through. It's kind of a finicky thing, and coffee is already an organic and changing product, so it can be tricky to get a good method down with this thing, but I've definitely pulled some coffee out of this that tasted great--not espresso quality, but better than I've had off a Nuova Simonelli with a mediocre barista. The right beans can make a world of difference. I typically use Stumptown or Cafe Vita, but even among Stumptown I've found certain beans to respond better than others. (Ethiopia Nano Challa was more responsive and consistent than Guatemala Santa Clara, for instance.) I thoroughly enjoy this thing, but between setup and full cleanup I can expect to take a good 20 minutes making coffee, although I can usually get a little reading done while waiting for the water to boil.One more thing I'll add is that the biggest motivator for me to get the Moka pot was to save money, and being able to make lattes for under $1 (using quality beans) has allowed me to do just that. Within a month the thing paid for itself, as I'm an avid coffee drinker. Just...get ready to have some bad coffee at first while you figure out grind setting--one small change in setting goes a long way to making a better cup, so definitely experiment with that. Add some well-frothed milk and you'll be able to save some poor brews, and make the great brews taste delicious. (Though I recommend only 5-9 oz of milk, since this Moka pot produces 3 oz of liquid, and anything above a 12 oz drink masks the flavor of the coffee.)


