1351296000
4.0
review/summary: Really great deal for the price! Tough to beat!review/text: My wife and I are pretty impressed with this chopper. We have tried a couple others of different types and price ranges and they didn't work as we had hoped. We wanted something simple and effective, something we wouldn't have to worry so much about what we were putting into the unit. The biggest issue we had with previous choppers was that they really struggled to chop harder vegetables etc. like carrots. After breaking our last unit on some carrots we had already pre-cut we initially decided to give up on food choppers. Not being the most motivated of people when it comes to preparing food though, we ended up caving in because manual chopping was taking too long after both of us working all day. We eat salads and soups a lot and try to cook dishes that have healthier items in them and the manual way just wasn't working! We bought this unit expecting it to break fairly quickly and just hoping for a few good uses out of something on the cheaper side.I'm very happy to say that this little thing is powerful and well designed. It cuts through anything that we have put in it. If it fits, this chops it up handily and fast! We clean it after each use and have seen no sign of it slowing down or wearing. It dramatically cuts down the time needed to prepare meals that call for chopped vegetables and you can even order a replacement blade and plastic cup if they eventually do wear out. After trying some units almost 4x the price we're loving this!I ultimately gave it 4 stars because while it performs well above our expectations it does has some flaws for our uses. 1) I guess because the blades are made to cut hard vegetables so well they can struggle sometimes with softer items like tomatoes. If you try to put too large of a tomatoe portion in the unit it kind of tears it more than it chops and it may not chop it up very much, just kind of smash it instead. All we had to do for that was cut the tomatoes into a little smaller sizes like quarter pieces and it works great on them as long as they aren't getting too ripe. 2) It may cut some harder vegetables so well that it almost shreds them more than chops. You can get a knack for finessing for the right amount of time, but if you leave it going to long your carrots will end up being finely chopped to say the least! I don't have a problem with this for what we use it for (mostly carrots go in the soups we make) but my wife likes the pieces to be bigger so you have to watch it.All in all once you get the hang of it, it's an impressive unit and for the price I can't imagine finding anything better. We plan to have ours around for a long time and will almost certainly buy another one to replace it if it should die. It's already made it much longer than any other unit we have purchased!


