1359244800
5.0
review/summary: Excellent value!review/text: Reviewed many pressure cookers before deciding on this one. While it requires a bit of assembly (handles and valve) these are minor issues. Very well made cooker and the 64 page booklet included useful information and recipes. Bought the 4 quart model since use for one person most of the time. Not having used pressure cooker before appreciated the warnings and useful tips on how to use safely. Like the fact that Presto has replacement seals when needed. Obviously cooker is useless if do not have this seal and in time am sure will require replacement. Buying one for my daughter as well who is busy career woman and wants to eat healthy and quickly. Keeping nutrients and vitamins in the food a plus as is the savings in time cooking a good meal. Easy to recommend this item.The instruction book that comes with this cooker is probably one of the best I have read in recent years. At the same time it is also very detailed in the care, maintenance and handling of the cooker. For example, it recommends replacing the seal and the safety plug once every two years. Of course that probably depends on the amount of use and the care you take of the product. In any case recommends replacing the safety plug when you replace the seal. Both are available on Amazon but this will mean a continuing cost to use the product. At the moment using Amazon Prime cost is about $15 for the pair of items or roughly $7.50 a year if replace every two years. I do highly recommend anyone wanting to use the product to read the instructions very carefully and perhaps highlight the key items. For example what foods to cook and more important what foods not to cook. What level in the pot to use for various items depending on their expansion during cooking. Also you need to look through the hole for the safety plug to be sure it is clear and use pipe cleaners to clean that hole and also the hole through the nut, all explained very clearly in the instructions. Various tips on how to clean (and how not to clean) the pot are very useful. If you have induction stove you will need the stainless steel pot since the aluminum pots are not magnetic, but then you probably knew that.Today with so many instructions written in China often they are difficult to read or not very worthwhile. The instructions with this cooker are quite different. They are important to use the product safely and to get the most value out of the product. If you are someone who seldom reads instructions or is not willing to spend an hour or so learning about this cooking method or who will not take the time to follow the safety instructions then you probably should consider a different method of cooking. But an hour or so spent learning about he product will pay off in better cooking, shorter time spent cooking and more healthy eating. I ordered a second cooker for my busy career oriented daughter but then cancelled the order after reading the instructions as I am not sure as busy as she is that she would read and follow them. I plan to show her mine and see if she will spend the time to learn the system. If so will order again for her. Or give her mine and buy second for myself. To me it is worth spending the time to learn about safely using this product but I can see that it is not for everyone. It is not a pot you just pour water into, stick lid on and fire up the burners. But once you learn how to take care of it and use it I think you will be extremely pleased with the cooking experience. And the time spent learning and caring for the cooker will pay off in shorter and better cooking. For those willing to invest a little time, bon appetite!


