1358726400
4.0
review/summary: Does EXACTLY what is is supposed toreview/text: What a powerful machine for the price. I greatly anticipated the quick arrival to my home. After gently opening the box and admiring it's black on silver shell, I wiped off my finger prints which quickly smudged the shiney mirrored casing after taking it out of the box. The first thing I made was an orange, cranberry, ginger drink. I was so looking forward to it and consumed every last drop. Next I made an kale, sour green apple, parcley, celery, ginger boost. Mmmm good! Compared to my traditional juicer where you slam an whole apple down the shute and let er' rip while you listen to it scream at the top of it's lungs, the Omega is so deligate and soft spoken. I do like the fact that I can be lazy and shred HUGE pieces of fiberish fruits and veggies in my old juicer, but I seemed to waste so much at the same time. The Omega does seems to juice more of what it masticates, but at a much sloooooowwwwwwer pace. I think my grandchildren's grandchildren have had kids by now because it is so much slower to make a cup a juice. But like my kids (dogs), I wouldn't trade it for the world. There are sacrifices to be made in life, and being able to juice greens in the Omega, but at a snails pace is so worth it. Despite the increased length of time to juice with the Omega, the clean up is a breeze. Pretty much just a quick rinse and a little scrub a dub dub with the included toothbrush and it is all ready to go for next time. Coffee beans are pulverized to expresso quality too. I do HIGHLY suggest that you only put a few beans in at a time because they jam up easy and then you have to play the game of revers and forward for a few minutes until it is unjammed. I have not made anything else in it....yet. I will be trying the frozen banana dessert recipe soon. The shute is not much bigger than a quarter or so, so the bananas are going to need to be cut to size before pushing them down the shoot. If you have the ability to buy one of these juicers, I hope you truly enjoy it as much as I do.


