1357430400
5.0
review/summary: Why should you buy this over other options?review/text: First off, this grill is huge. The largest we've owned so far (and we've owned several over the years). For my family, we enjoy the &#34;hibachi&#34; type cooking where you're grilling veggies and meats and lucking them off into dipping sauces to eat as you go. For a family of four, this requires a large surface area and the Presto 07046 meets the bill for this. Plenty of room to keep raw meats cooking separately from the veggies.Secondly, with this large a surface area, we were impressed by the even cooking throughout. It doesn't seem to have any hot or cold spots. I will say that hibachi cooking may not test this as well as say, cooking pancakes all over the surface, but I think it would do just fine.The third reason is the non-stick surface. It's held up well so far, but all the other grills we've had, eventually seem to degrade in this area. This one seems to be as pristine after 40 hibachi sessions, and were more than happy. However, I'd like to pass along a lesson learned with these types of grills and that is, when grilling, grill to the maximum temperature necessary for the amount of time necessary, and avoid simply turning the heat all the way up and grilling at max temps for longer than you need to. Following this tip will keep the grills non-stick surface nice and new.As far as the tilt drain feature, it's a nice feature to have, but for our type of cooking, it really hasn't come into play much. There really isn't that much runoff from the items being cooked. I did notice however, a few people complaining about the moveable arms sliding out by themselves. Personally, I haven't had this issue nor do I think this means the design is defective. It may mean that their unit just needs to have the arms tightened. I would add this feature as a plus however, if you're looking to cook healthier and keep oils draining away from the food. If so, the liquids will drain into a removable tray.In terms of cleanup, we really like the grill. The tray and heating unit remove, leaving you able to wash just the grill plate. And although I doubt if anyone will have a sink large enough to immerse the entire grill plate in water, you could do this.Finally, the price. No need to say anything there. It's a deal compared to some of the other brands out there.


