1357257600
1.0
review/summary: Look forward to TOXIC Filter Replacements.review/text: I have a 10 year old Honeywell 13520 HEPA Air Purifier that has always worked very well. A few days ago I bought this new Honeywell 50250-S Pure HEPA Round Air Purifier, which is the successor to the 13520. They both came with a single large HEPA filter and a pre-filter that work very well.The problem is I went to the Honeywell Store to buy replacement filters for the 13520 a few days ago as well. I installed them today. It turns out they no longer make the replacement filter for the 13520 or this unit, at least not the same single HEPA filter that the old 13520 and the new 50250 shipped with. When you need a replacement you are now forced to buy three (3) stackable HEPA filters, which together cost about 50% more than the original filter did. This is not the worse part of all this. The new HEPA filters smell like a toxic chemical dump. I just installed 3 new HEPA filters in my old 13520 as well as a pre-filter, which now also comes in only one size fits all, which means you have to cut it yourself to fit and it is see-through thin at about 3/16 inch thick. I have no idea how that is supposed to protect the HEPA filter as I can see straight through it. You can bet you HEPA filters will not last nearly as long as when they were 1/2 inch thick and much more dense.I am returning the whole lot, even this new 50250, which actually is working very well and came with a single large HEPA filter. The problem is I do not EVER want to install the TOXIC replacements that are the only thing available from Honeywell. So looking forward I will avoid the whole problem down the road by not even keeping the unit for the time being.How can Honeywell sell a device that is designed to "purify" the air in your house and make it so chemically TOXIC? I swear I would rather breathe gasoline or paint fumes than the foul odor coming out of the new filter, no exaggeration at all.Do yourself a favor and stay away form ALL Honeywell air filters because they ALL take the same filter, either one, two, or three of them.


