1358467200
3.0
review/summary: Works great with peanut butter cookies, not so great with oatmeal raisin cookies...review/text: I ordered the small cookie scoop and have so far used it on maybe 9 dozen cookies.The first 3 dozen cookies were a combination peanut butter and Nutella recipe, so the dough was nice and smooth and buttery, very easy to handle. The scoop worked beautifully, and I had consistently sized cookies.The second 3 dozen cookies were oatmeal raisin, so the dough was much more textured and bumpy with the rolled oats and the plump raisins. I imagine this is what foiled the scoop for me -- the gear went off track by about one tooth, so the scraper was misaligned with the scoop a bit. The result was that the scraper didn't scrape all the way to the edges, and the ball of dough would hang from the scoop. I kept going anyway, using my finger to drop the ball of dough at the end of each cookie placement. Later, in the same batch of cookies, the gear went even further off track. I kept going because I didn't want to stop to fix the thing while I had my oven pre-heating, but eventually, the spring came out, and I ended up manually turning the gear just to finish off the batch.I was able to fix it once I cleaned it, all while the cookies were baking, but it took some finesse and brute force to get it done. In other words, it wasn't easy, but it was fixable. I'm not even sure why it went off track in the first place unless the scraper got caught on a rolled oat or raisin.The last 3 dozen cookies were another variation of peanut butter and Nutella, with some tahini thrown in, so again, the dough was smooth and buttery. Again, no problem. Perfectly done cookies. I was wary throughout the process, though, and was very careful in how I handled the scoop.I want to grade this four stars, but honestly I'm nervous about using the scoop for any kind of dough with chunks in it -- like chocolate chips or nuts or dried fruit. I'll see how it goes with my next batch of cookies and update my review if my feelings change.All in all, when it works, it works really well. But when the parts get out of their groove, ugh. Just be careful and watch the alignment of the gear and teeth, especially when working with hard to handle dough. That means doughs that are chunky or cold or stiff.I'm grading it three stars ("it's OK") because after having it break while baking, I don't really have the peace of mind that I had when I first started using it.


