1358899200
5.0
review/summary: Great Personal Coffee Maker!review/text: I have used this coffee maker for three weeks now without a hiccup. I bought a Keurig for my girlfriend and she really like's that'. I really enjoy using the coffee machine and it produces great coffee. Here are the arguments:Pros1. Lower Cost per use - use your own bulk coffee2. More customization - add enough coffee to your liking3. Larger cup size - this thing will pump out about 16oz; the size depends on how much water you pour into the machine4. Use of filter - I found cutting filters to size works out best for me. The re-useable filter allowed too much coffee to flow through and I had grounds at the bottom of my coffee cup. I use a fine Kirkland brand coffee.5. Pretty fast, it starts to operate within a few seconds of hitting the start button6. Reduces packaging waste7. Pours into my own cup usually a large traveler or mug8. Easy clean up, I simply throw away (dump out) the paper filter and rinse out the plastic retainer9. Low cost of coffee maker - this thing costs about the same as the additional do-it-yourself filter adaptor for the KeurigCons1. Water reservoir could be a little larger (but, it's already pretty large)2. Space between maker could be larger to accommodate a taller travel mug - I pour my large coffee mug into a Nissan travel mug3. Grounds sometime hit the water dispenser at the top of the maker making cleaning necessary (when using my own fine filter)I feel that the coffee tastes better than the Keurig (plus I like my coffee strong - so I probably use a little more than the single serve size), I think this is because the coffee is allowed to float in the hot water paper filter absorbing more coffee flavor. I will post some pictures of the filter. This coffee maker offers a great cost benefit ratio - to all the cost conscience, this is a no brainer - unless the time and convenience factor start to weigh in a LITTLE more. I will adjust the review if reliability becomes an issue.


