1349308800
5.0
review/summary: WOW! My new kitchen POWER TOOL!review/text: With over 600 reviews, you probably don't need just another one to tell you this machine is a powerhouse so I'll try to stick to the particular features which impressed me. First, I started juicing regularly over a year ago. I had purchased a Jack LaLanne ProJuicer at Big Lots for about eighty dollars. So, I started using it. While it lasted over a year, it was only around 300 watts. I found cleanup was laborious for the one cup of juice I would get. Also, the juice spout was lower so I had to use a small cup. If I wanted to make a lot of juice (to make it worth the cleanup), I had to dump the small cup into a pitcher and repeat (many times). When I did make a big batch, the overheat motor feature would kick in and I would have to stop to wait for it to cool. It did last me for quite a while but was less than ideal for someone who juices regularly. I really researched and came to Breville. When I looked at the highest end model, it didn't seem to have much more wattage or positive reviews for the money. I definitely wanted high wattage. I got this one in a refurb model so I saved about seventy dollars. That made the deal for me - 900 watts of power PLUS a small increase over the base model. I could not be happier.Here are the key features for me:1. I love the spout. It is higher up so you can fit most cups under it - not just the dinky ones. There is a spout to use with the pitcher (more on that later) and an attachment for regular cups. Much less mess because of this little feature.2. I love the pitcher. The pitcher is made to hook on to the spout so there is virtually no mess! Plus, I can measure how much juice I have made since the measurement marks are on the side of the pitcher. The pitcher also has a foam reducer so, when you pour your juice, the foam doesn't come out (as opposed to just using a cup which has all the foam on top when you drink).3. Clear spinner and top: I can see how much pulp is building up so I don't have to guess when to change it. I ordered those small compost bags so everything goes right in there and cleanup is a cinch.4. Brush: The brush that comes with it can be used for a number of things. Most notably, it is great at cleaning the blade.5. Spinning blade: No more special tools - this thing is held on by a magnet and comes on and off for cleaning but stays tight for spinning.6. Multiple speeds: I make mean green juice and get so much more out of my kale and apples. I can switch speeds to accommodate both. It makes a difference.7. Large shoot: My husband bought me small green apples. I can pitch the entire apple in the shoot. It is marvelous. I don't have to worry about even cutting it.8. POWER: Of course, at 3 times the power of my LaLanne, it is a powerhouse! I feel like I am playing fruit ninja when the produce splats the side and the juice comes pouring out. It is fast and powerful.So, those are my favorite features. If I had known this machine was out there, I would have changed over a year ago. And, for me, the refurb was good as new at a greatly reduced price. That made a difference for my budget.I have autoimmune flares every now and then and juicing minimizes them. I feel much healthier and have a longer time between flareups. So, for me, the money was well spent. I can make up a pitcher the night before, put it in the fridge, and have my juice waiting first thing in the morning. ALOT less cleanup than having to clean a machine for each glass of juice. LOVE IT!!!!Here's the compost bags:Norpro Degradable Compost Bags, 50 Pieces


