1360195200
5.0
review/summary: Maybe a bit premature...review/text: I have only been juicing for 1 year. Most of which was with a cheap Walmart juicer and fruit. Then recently I found another cheap juicer at Sams Club. It was actually quite a nice looking juicer and was an exact copy of a Breville JE98XL. Since then I have been making green juices for breakfast (kind of hooked on them now). I love the energy that I get and the well being of juicing. The one thing I didn't like was all the waste. The top feed high speed juicers all seem to leave pulp quite wet. I have tried re running the pulp before only to end up with a gooey mess. They are fast and convenient but what a waste of food. They always left me feeling like I didn't get all the juice I could out of what ever I put into it. Then there is the nutritional value that you are trying to get from the food which the high speed and heat reduce. Seems counter intuitive doesn't it a bit?So I have never used a masticating juicer and read other reviews of this product. The reviews I have seen seemed a little mixed so I was sort of scared to make this purchase. The reviews lean more toward the better end of the spectrum however. The issue I see is that no matter what you get into the price for something superb is always more than I want to pay. It doesn't seem to matter what the product is some snobbery is expected. So with that I hope those are all outliers. I just received the product today as well so some of what I have to say could be prejudice.I unpacked the item and really it seems more than solid. Everything seems very well constructed but only time will tell. The motor is quiet, not dead quiet but nothing like what other machines sound like. When its grinding up food it sounds like its crunching away in an almost comical way. The pulp comes out the end very dry. I know my rabbit loves the pulp usually this she is not even touching. So I know its dry too dry for her. Also it comes with two containers one for the pulp and one for the juice.The results, well let me first say the juice I made is not unique. I used to make this all the time so I know the exact taste from the other machine. With this it was greener and cooler actually down right cold when it came out. I always wash my vegetables then leave then in cold water right up till I start making them into juice. Usually when the juice comes out its almost room temperature with the other machine. The process with this is more extensive but not that overly laborious. I had to cut my apples into 8 instead of 4 and cucumbers into 4. This doesn't seem like a big deal to me. Also this juice can be stored in a dark container with no loss of vitamins which is a huge plus. The taste is amazing. It was so much better than I have had before. That alone made up for the cost difference.The clean up is not bad either. I was able to pull everything apart fairly easy and really it cleans easier than my other machine. I can almost never get everything out of the metal strainers. I think in all it has the same amount of parts to clean as a top feed juicer. I agree these are not for everyone as its difficult at times to get everything down the shoot. In all though for the taste and nutrients this is well worth it. Now just to hope that it endures. My Walmart juicer broke in a year and the Sams club juicer is now going to be a gift. So that is really my only concern.


