1352505600
1.0
review/summary: Keurig Does Not Help when machine breaks - Do not buyreview/text: After owning this system for a year, about three months ago I started having problems with the system. It did not brew the correct volume per my selected cup size. I decided to get out the manual and try to descale the machine. After waiting 4 hours, during my rinse tests I started getting a "prime" message and the cup volume decreased. I called customer service and was talked through a few different steps to try to "fix my problem". Long story short, my problem was not fixed and my brewer is no longer working properly (dead). The first customer service lady offered me a "deal" to purchase another brewer at a discounted price, because mine is "just out of its 1 years warrantee". I could buy the same exact brewer that I am having problems with for $70. When I asked her to give me a good reason why I would want to purchase this same brewer that broke after one year, she could not give me a good reason. I asked to speak to a supervisor, who also told me her hands were tied and since my brewer is out of warrantee there is nothing she can do to help me. The best point of her argument is that "all equipment comes with a 1 year warrantee" so I should not be upset that my broken brewer is out of warrantee and they will not replace it for free. She did not seem to get the point that equipment should not break RIGHT AFTER the year is up. I am speaking with their corporate office on Monday, because I frustrated and will be more than happy to replace my broken Keurig with one of their competitors. They have wasted more money on the labor in people talking to me and increased the frustration of a customer to a point of typing this review, that they would have saved so much by just sending me a new machine. I have lost my interest in doing any additional business with Keurig simply because of their attitude and disinterest in replacing their faulty machine. With all the competition out there, I am surprised they are so caviler. So, know that if your machine breaks, Keurig will not go above and beyond to make the situation right. Bad business, if you ask me!!!!!!


