1360540800
5.0
review/summary: Great for a starter juicerreview/text: If you're interested in juicing, but don't want to break the bank, this is an excellent choice.My wife and I are both hardcore juicers. We drink beet, carrot, kale, spinach, and apple almost daily. We owned five juicers over the years before we finally broke down and invested in a Breville BJE820XL. It's a monster and having the heavy duty construction plus a speed dial is great. But it's just too large to drag it around with us every time we visit our relatives.Luckily we're both from the same town, so we decided to just buy a second juicer and keep it at one of our parent's houses. We decided to start as small as possible, hoping that a cheap juicer would be fine for just a few weeks a year. But all of the models we tried were just awful. One leaked terribly, and got beet juice all over the wall and floor. Another jammed constantly due to a cheap motor. And all of them produced gritty juice.Finally, after several returns of different models, we tried the BJE200XL, and it's wonderful. It's not the absolute best juicer I've ever used, and it does have a few limitations, but overall it performs almost as well as juicers that cost two or three times as much.Here are the pros and cons for this model:Pro:1. Compact. There's just the juicer and juice pitcher. No pulp bucket means that it's easier to store.2. Still a good quality juice. Almost no grit, and it still has the froth skimmer built into the pitcher like the larger models.3. Easy to clean. Once you get used to it, you can literally have this unit cleaned in under a minute.4. Nice wide feeder tube. You can fit small apples whole into this thing, just like the more expensive models.5. Powerful. The motor on this model is only rated at 700 Watts, but that's still more than enough for anything I've thrown at it. And it's definitely more powerful than any of the other low end juicers I've tried.Con:1. The built-in pulp catcher is small. Don't expect to make large batches of juice with this unless you want to disassemble it repeatedly.2. The pulp catcher is a narrow band around the juicing disk. It's too narrow for ordinary dish wands or my fat fingers + a sponge to make it into easily. Just get a wand with bristles and be prepared to have a few scratches on it after some use.3. Not as sturdy as the more expensive models. This is 100% plastic other than the juice disk and safety latch, so it'll get nicks and scratches.Overall, I'd rate this as 5 stars easily for the price. The quality of the juice and the quick cleanup are great. It's perfect for trying out juicing without a large investment, or as in my case, as a second juicer if you visit somewhere regularly.


