1354665600
5.0
review/summary: Perfect cleaner!review/text: This is the perfect at-home carpet cleaner! Follow the instruction manual for set up, read the directions, and you're off. My steam cleaner has been used by myself and extended family, performing beautifully every time.Pros:1. Luxury of being able to clean when I want, not having to stress about renting/lugging machine around. Also lighter weight--I can clean and not be sore the next day.2. Fits well in a small space. (It sits next to my vacuum cleaner in the same closet.)3. Simple, easy use. Plain hot tap water gets carpets clean.4. Picks up old stains very well (even ones left behind by commercial rental cleaners).5. Picks up pet stains easily (even orange vomit stains from dog a few days ago that didn't quite come up with the usual, by hand, spot clean).6. Upholstery attachment great for the car!7. Speeeedy dry time (with ceiling fan on high, floor box fans work great too). In a larger room, by the time you're finished, where you started is nearing dry.In some ways, it's better than a shopvac. Mine has been used (in spill pick-up mode) to pull water out of a flooded basement carpet, overflowed toilet (on both carpet AND linoleum), and spilled water bucket on carpet. It cleans just about everything I put it to. I just make sure to go over carpet area with the machine several times (think vacuuming motions), to get all the water pulled up after steam cleaning an area.Cons? None as far as the machine. I do recommend using Woolite Oxy solution for steam cleaners instead of the Hoover solution. I only once used the small bottle of hoover stuff (that initially came with machine) and it left this weird aftersmell, like old carpet (even though the carpet I was cleaning was only about 2 years old). I had to take febreze fabric spray to the carpet to get the smell out. Oxy carpet cleaner is the best, leaves a clean fresh scent. I'm able to use it in the winter and don't have to be concerned with airing the house out.I would buy this again! Don't know why I ever waited so long to get one.


