1356739200
4.0
review/summary: Decent! Does What It's Supposed To Do. Good QUALITY-Tasting Coffee. No Real Issues. Recommend It Fully.review/text: Bought this for a very special friend of mines; he is a bachelor and it's the perfect size for him-just a cup or two when he wants it-and when I'm over I can have fresh coffee instead of the instant pseudo-coffee mess he usually has on hand. He just used this little coffeemaker day after xmas morning while I was over visiting for the holidays. Had no trouble using it right the first time. Don't know what is going on with others but this little machine is about as straightforward as they come; is uncomplicated, and, dare I say, if I only had jello pudding for brains-I would still be able to use it easy peasy-w/absolutely NO PROBLEMS. No grounds to be found in our coffee. He used the Melitta #1 filters. Put in 1 1/2 scoops of coffee-that was too strong but he drank it-said it was still good-he did mines with 1 scoop-mind you he was using a deeper scoop which holds 2 tablespoons-not 1; the coffee got brewed into regular sized coffee mugs with about between 6-8 ounces of water; we didn't use the travel mug. The one really heaping scoop we found was perfect for us esp if you like coffee that is somewhere inbetween-far from weak but not too strong either-it was perfect-you just need to figure out the coffee/water ratios best for you-that was the hardest part-and not really hard @ all-just trial & error. Was surprised @ such rich tasting coffee as even my bigger, more expensive machine @ home doesn't taste as good as with this, which I got for less than $15 bucks. We used a regular grind of coffee from a cannister of Folgers; yes, Folgers the coffee a lot of folks slam and I don't care for much either but if this coffeemaker made a decent cup of Folgers I can only imagine how some other coffees will taste in it. The coffee tasted really, really good esp using those Melitta #1 brown filters. I know there's a perm filter but I also believe like some others that the paper filters enhance & facilitate better taste, and cleanup is a breeze. Four stars because I thought a better job could have been done on the travel cup; but, no big deal-your own mug is cool too. This is a very small machine, very cute, almost like a toy. However it delivers some very BIG results. You wouldn't expect something so inexpensive and small to produce such gr8 results. I would recommend this for anyone who loves coffee and lives alone, has a roomate, married couples, college students, or households with only one or 2 coffeedrinkers. There were no issues with overflowing-yes a little coffee continues to dribble after the brew cycle is done-but heck just get a paper towel. ZERO issues with grounds in the coffee or weak tasting, flat/bland coffee. Wasn't super loud-not anything out of the ordinary. Would give 4 1/2 stars if I could; but giving 4; again, did not particularly like the travel mug...which is not even a huge issue when considering the price of this + the convenience and the decent results it delivers. Oh, and the coffee was HOT enough for us esp when you drink it right away. Good stuff. Thanks!


