1359244800
3.0
review/summary: Does what it's supposed to but has some negatives.review/text: I purchased this vacuum 9 months ago for vacuuming stairs and furniture. I read a lot of reviews and saw all the happy customers here. I have to say over all I am disappointed. This vacuum does get the job done, but there are some big negatives.- I often have to drag it over the same spot several times before it will pick up visible debris like lint or cat hair.- Flipping down the "Riser Visor" requires more effort than I'd like.- It get's HOT. At least mine does. After 8 minutes of cleaning it is very hot to the touch.- The dust cup filter gets FILTHY and is impossibly difficult to clean.To elaborate on the dust cup filter issue: The filter gets clogged very easily. All of the little dust particles cling to it. You can NOT just dump out the dust cup and shake out the filter and expect everything to be tidy. The manual states "The dust cup filter can be cleaned by brushing off over a waste container. Do not allow to get wet." Brush off with what? Certainly not with your hands. I've designated a handled dish brush with stiff bristles for my attempts at brushing off the filter, but nothing I try gets the filter truly clean. The whole process of trying to get the dust cup and filter even remotely clean is tedious, messy, and just poorly designed.I have a stand-up vacuum cleaner (Hoover brand) with a filter. Its filter never gets filthy like this one and it is washable with water. I really wish a similar design had been applied to this hand-held vacuum.If anyone owns this vacuum and has any tips on how to clean the dust cup filter more easily, I'm all ears.EDIT 1/29/13: A kind commenter informed me that they wash their filter in soapy water once a week and have had no problems. Unfortunately my current filter is so far gone that I plan to buy a replacement. I will try to remember to come back and update this if the new filter solves my troubles. Regardless I wouldn't go above 4 stars considering the inconvenience.Here is a link to a replacement filter:Eureka Quick Up Washable & Reusable Dust Cup Filter Fits Eureka Quick Up Vacuum Cleaner Models: 61, 70, 71, 61A, 70A, 70AX, 71A, 71AV, 71B, AG61A, UK61A, Z61A; Compare to Eureka Part # 39657; Designed & Engineered By Crucial Vacuum


