1350604800
2.0
review/summary: Short life span and poor customer servicereview/text: I purchased this machine about a year ago based on the many positive reviews and reasonable price. Had I written a review anytime in the first 10 months of owning it I would be giving it 5 stars as it produced an excellent cup of espresso and seemed like a complete bargain.But then after around 11 months of regular use it wasn't making great espresso anymore. The unit had been cleaned and descaled regularly according to the directions but took much longer to pump out a cup and wasn't producing much crema anymore. This progressed quickly to it taking a very long time to make a poor cup with no cream whatsoever.At that point I read through all the reviews in more depth than I had originally and found out that this is a very common problem. If you actually use the machine a lot you will be lucky to get a year out of it before the pump fails. At that point I was happy to still be under warranty and contacted De'Longhi customer service.After a couple of emails back and forth with them to confirm I had serviced the machine properly they agreed to replace it. As instructed I sent them the power cord, my receipt and $15 (almost 20% of what I paid for the unit in the first place). They told me a replacement unit would be released for shipping when they received my power cord and check. They did cash the check promptly, but after a month I had still not received the replacement machine.Since I had received no communication from them at this point I sent a query as to the status of my replacement. After about a week I received a reply stating that they were sorry but the unit is on backorder and they will ship me one as soon as possible. Another 10 days have since gone by with no replacement or further communication.So there is a reason this machine is so much cheaper than anything else out there that makes decent espresso - it's not built to last. It still might be a bargain if you only use it on weekends or consider $80 a year cheap compared to Starbucks, but if you use it frequently expect to replace it every year.And then there is the customer service. It's unacceptable to me for a company to advertise a 1 year warranty, then take months (if ever) to actually make good on it. I see these are available for immediate shipping on Amazon, if De'Longhi cared to keep me happy they could order one of these or offer to refund my purchase price so that I can. When I replace this unit with a pricier one that has a longer lifespan I will be hard pressed to buy a De'Longhi.


