1353888000
4.0
review/summary: Good machine but can be great with a few modificationsreview/text: I bought this machine in May 2011 after buying and returning the Zojirushi machine which I found to be a total lemon. I make bread often and in fact have not bought bread from a grocery store in over two years. I had been using a Welbilt machine --c.1993--but it was showing its age and became useful only for mixing dough. After reading the reviews for the Panasonic I decided to go for it. I've been using it now for about 18 months and for the most part I'm satisfied. Some positive points are its heavy and sturdy pan and the full sized and generally nice loaves it puts out. A few nagging problems--at least for me--are the yeast dispenser and the time of the programs. The yeast dispenser is an excellent idea but for large recipes I find that some of the yeast spills outside the cup. I find myself using my fingers to try and fit all of the yeast into the well. Most recipes seem to call for 2-2 1/2 teaspoons of yeast but the dispenser seems to only hold a little less than two comfortably.The other "hunh" comment is about the length of programs. While some have noted that they like the fact that the machine "rests" the ingredients and allows them to come to room temperature, I find it a little unnecessary for bread to take that long. To get around this I've gone to solely using the "rapid" program, slightly warming the yeast first and making sure that all ingredients are already at room temp. Even more of a "how come?" is the 2:20 time to make dough. My old Welbilt knocked out dough in fifty minutes and it was no less tasty--even and especially including whole wheat pizza dough and dough for challah. I also have to manually time the addition of nuts or fruit if I use the rapid program; there does not seem to be any way to program fruit with the shortened cycle so that it beeps to add the fruit/nuts.So all in all I think this is a very good machine. So far I've had no technical problems and I use it about twice a week. I found a 4 or 5 year old Breadman machine that was barely used at a local thrift store for $4. So I use it to make dough (1:20) and save time and use the Panasonic for the pretty bread baked on the short program.


