1360022400
1.0
review/summary: Revenge of Da Beanz!review/text: Yeah, I was planning on making a movie about this *&#8364;#%$ piece of failed design. So yes, it has a brilliant feature: by twisting the top you wind the cord in or out. If it means much to you to have an electrical device that you can play a few minutes with every time you want to use it, this may be it. I just want to grind coffee beans and sadly it's the one thing it can't do. What it's really good at is spilling partially ground coffee over the counter and onto the floor. Amazon will gladly sell you an other appliance to deal with that. I just want to grind my beans, pour them into my espresso filter handle, screw that into my espresso maker and enjoy a good cup of freshly roasted coffee beans.Can't do that, and this is why: the engineers and industrial designer don't drink coffee. That has to be the reason. Otherwise they would have devised a grinder with enough depth to hold more than a spoonful of beans. Because they didn't the grounds will spill out as soon as you pull the transparent top off. But, first you have to grind. Well, that's a good time to get your blood flowing as you shake the thing in hopes of reaching a fine grind. Well, no matter how long you grind and how often you shake the thing your ground will be coarse. Apparently the blade is placed too high and thus there's no compacting friction between the bottom and the blade.Now, I learned to hold the grinder upside down and tap the side until all grounds end up in the top cover. I previously had a grinder whose top also served as a container. Piece of aluminum foil over it and in the fridge it goes. Not this one. The designer (if there ever was one) decided to make the top round, yet give it a flat surface, but put that off axis. Yes, the ground coffee will spill out because some jackass angled the cover for no other reason than that maybe, perhaps, there was an odd chance that it made the thing look better.Fast forward to pouring the ground into the coffee maker. I guess if you have drip coffee maker you are now very close to making coffee, but if you like espresso and have to deal with the small container you miss having a corner on the top. It is round and wide and you will need a spoon to transfer coffee to your espresso pod.Okay, back to the top sitting on the counter. Because its angled and precariously balances you can't cover it well and put it away in the fridge. So what do you do? You put it back on the grinder, causing ground to creep in between the top and grinder and several times the slot for the button got clogged and jammed the operation.So, the simple act of grinding some beans turns into a major cleaning operation, claiming perhaps ten minutes of your life and a chunk of your soul each time you crave coffee.To wrap it up, I don't just dislike this thing, I hate it and you will too, notwithstanding the multitude of 5-star reviews.


