1347840000
1.0
review/summary: Exactly what your kitchen needs -- if you don't intend to use it.review/text: I feel reasonably well-qualified to review this mixer. I write this only after giving up on my fourth one. I inherited the first from my mother.My parents purchased the first one in the early 1970s. It died in 2003. In its day it ground sausage, whipped cream and eggs, and made an occasional batch of bread. So when it croaked after 40 years of service, I bought this model to replace it. Disclosure: I make four loaves of french bread every week. After about 14 months, the motor overheated and seized. KitchenAid was very helpful and promptly replaced it, after interrogating me on my baking habits and stipulating that I use the 2nd speed for dough mixing, not the first, and to use soft (wet) dough and not to use more than 9 of the 12 rated cups of flour. So I adapted my bread making to the needs of the mixer for another 12 months.Nevertheless, the transmission in that one stripped. (Impressive! Multiple modes of failure.) Once again, KitchenAid replaced it with minimal hassle, but warned me that they wouldn't do it again, and that I should purchase the extended warranty for further coverage.My conclusions to this point: the product is pretty, but basically junk; however, customer service makes it viable. I'm ok with a week of downtime about once a year if they're willing to keep replacing it.I purchased the extended warranty for about $65 dollars. About 13 months later, the transmission stripped (but with a different noise pattern -- maybe I have one of the famous nylon transmissions?) I called KitchenAid, and this time they said I was out of luck. Ahah! I thought. Not so fast. I inquired about my extended warranty, and they smugly explained that their extended warranties are actually offered through a third party vendor, and gave me a phone number for that entity. (Naturally, there was no mention of this during the appliance or warranty sales cycle.) Now the joke is on me: the warranty company said they had no record of my warranty.As they say, dark clouds often times have silver linings. For $1600 on Craigslist, I bought a 1980 Blakesley 30 quart mixer. It doesn't fit on my counter, it's not shiny or available in designer colors, and it only has the two speeds I need. It also doesn't send my stomach in knots by clicking, clunking, wailing or stinking of burning plastic when I've promised bread to half a dozen people. It will deal with up to 48 lbs of flour in a stiff dough. In short, it works like, well, a real tool.KitchenAid has known about numerous design shortcomings in their mixers for more than 40 years. It has responded by introducing new colors, different bowl configurations, and an amazing array of attachments.I humbly submit that it's pointless to ignore the obvious: KitchenAid mixers are toys, not appliances. Personally, after more than 40 years, I'm done with them. Good riddance.On the other hand, if you don't cook, but enjoy the look of a well- furnished kitchen, then this mixer may be for you. In that case, however, save yourself $350 by finding a dead one on Craigslist. If you can't find a dead one for free, you're welcome to one of mine.


