1358294400
5.0
review/summary: despite clunky appearance, they are roomy and easy to clean (and NO RUST!)review/text: After dealing with the umpteenth rusty tension shower caddy, I decided I needed to switch gears as far as storage in my shower. I'm tired of having to constantly replace them, and I'm tired of the rust staining the tiles and grout in my shower and the whole production of getting it in and out.After having success with other Command products around our house (we live in VERY humid Southwest Florida and not everything sticks here), I decided to give these shower caddies a go. I liked the idea of affixing them to the shower stall where I wanted them, and I also liked that they are removable from their bases and dishwasher-safe.First and foremost, they are larger than I expected. I have a lot of shower gel and like to keep it in the shower so I can cycle through all of it, and I was concerned I'd need about ten caddies to handle it all, but it turned out that one large caddy and four small were more than enough for my shower gels (about ten bottles), shampoo bottles, and other odds and ends I've got in there.The installation was okay- a little fussy, since these are not something you apply and then adjust after if it needs "tweaking". So it took a little bit of planning and for the five caddies, it took about twenty minutes to "map them out" and install them. Basically you apply the adhesive to the base, put the base where you want it, and press for a minute. Then you wait 24-36 hours before you hang the caddy on the wall and fill it up.The caddies are spacious, but they have a weird "kidney shaped" design/curve to them so in order to get all my stuff in them, I sort of had to put everything in angled. Most of my shower gels are the small Bath and Body Works bottles, and all shampoo bottles seem to be angular these days, so I think the Command Caddies would have been better if they were just oval shaped. But as long as you aren't picky about lining up your shampoo and gel bottles *just so*, it should be fine. One small caddy holds about four Bath and Body Works bottles, or two Philosophy bottles. However, my jar of Aveeno Facial Scrub didn't fit into any of the caddies so if you've got jars of stuff or large bottles of shampoo/conditioner/soap, you might keep looking.The only real downside is that these caddy/shelves look like they belong in a dorm room. They are bright white plastic, and there's very little elegance about them. If you've just remodeled your bathroom with the latest glass tile and riverstone, you are not going to want to glue some plastic white bucket to the wall of your shower. I've purchased some "faux brushed nickel "(silver-colored plastic) Command products before and I'm not sure why they didn't make that a color option for these shelves since most bathroom fixtures are in the chrome/steel color and almost every shower caddy I have ever seen is also made of steel.However, these don't rust. And after years of dealing with rusty bathroom storage, I'd put up flourescent orange plastic in my shower if it meant I could just install it and be done with it.So, all in all, I recommend these. They could be a little more elegant, and better shaped, but it's a good evolution in the realm of in-shower storage. I think it's time manufacturers realize that the "rusty scaffolding" look is not something we all want for our bathrooms.


