1352246400
5.0
review/summary: B&D One cup coffeemakerreview/text: I was a little wary about this but the low price and future low cost of coffee per cup made me buy it. And I figured if not working properly I can return it :)I received this coffeemaker yesterday and love it. It does brew 1 cup of coffee, it does use my coffee and no need to buy paper filters. For those who are wondering, it's a miniature drip coffee maker about half the size of 12 cup machine. It's as loud as your regular drip coffee machine and if you're like me in the am you will not even notice it because you're getting ready for work etc. It is fast, couple of minutes to brew a cup. And the coffee is hot.Coffee strength is all up to you. As it doesn't use k cups or pods, you determine how much coffee you put in. The instructions say about 2 and 1/2 tblsp and it is correct if I use their ss travel mug. But when using my regular ceramic one, for home, it needs less coffee. Stainless steel mug holds 8oz while ceramic one 6oz. But that is something you will determine according to your own preferences.The only con thing I can think of is when the coffee is done brewing and I want to remove the filter to clean it, another teaspoon of coffee drips. To explain this a little better; filter is in a holder and not all of the coffee drips down into the cup. Some stays in that holder and as I grab it it tilts and there comes the coffee. And the only remedy for that is I'll have to remember that and try not to tilt the holder.Machine does have auto shut off, as soon as it's done brewing it shuts off. Very nice as I do not stand next to it and wait for the coffee to be done. Therefore no worries if the machine will burn out.As far as the stainless cup goes...not happy. It's not insulated at all. It's ss outside and plastic on the inside. Being that it's metal on the outside and not insulated, coffee gets cold very fast. Specially in the am and winter, it takes about 10 minutes for my car to warm up...car gets warm and coffee cold. But that has nothing to do with how well this little machine performs. Knowing what I know now about the ss cup I'd still buy the machine.I hope I covered all the points.11/10/12 edited to add I found a solution for that little bit of coffee being left in the filter holder. When the coffee is done I simply tilt the machine forward a little and the rest of the coffee drips into the cup. Problem solved.Also wanted to add that if you want to use your tall-er travel mug, it will not be able to fit. My tall travel mug uses the same amount of coffee as their ss one, so I simply use ss and when done pour it into my tall insulated one. Some might think it's to much work, but if I used regular 12 cup coffee maker I'd still have to transfer the coffee into my travel mug :)


