1360454400
5.0
review/summary: A Good Pillow is Hard to Findreview/text: I got this pillow off woot when it was on there not that long ago and got a slightly discounted price from what is being sold here but this is still pretty reasonable.First off, let me say that I am VERY hard on pillows. I go through pillows once every couple months because I sleep on my side a lot and I mush them up and need really good support. I'm a bit fussy when it comes to neck support and so as soon as a pillow is losing it's umph, out it goes because I just don't like to do neck pain. Neck pain leads to migraines and me being cranky at everyone. Feather pillows are just out of the question! I've been searching for the holy grail when it comes to pillows because I can't stand throwing things out so often. I've had cheap pillows, semi-expensive ones and none of them do the trick for me. I've often said that I'm totally willing to fork over a lot of money if it means I will get a good investment in a good pillow that will last a really long time.So naturally, I was skeptical when I saw this one up on woot but because the price wasn't too bad (and like I said still isn't too bad here on Amazon), I decided to give it a try. It can't be any worse than some of the pieces of crap I've gotten from all over stores.I was shocked a bit at how hard it actually is. A lot of other people have posted that negatively, but I find it to be a BIG positive because it is very supportive, yet it can be mushed about due to those little beads. The first night I wasn't sure if I liked it or not though. I felt kinda weird. But I kept on with it and it really is very good! It is pretty much holding it's shape now for the past week and a half -- which is promising. I will say that I did notice it is getting a little softer and more malleable as time goes on but I see that as another good thing. Like it is a pair of shoes getting broken in so that they'll be more comfortable for your personal fit. It isn't awful yet and it is definitely not looking like it'll deflate horribly or something of the like any time soon.I'm happy with my purchase and hopeful that I finally found the holy grail.Meanwhile, I'm buying a second one here on Amazon for my husband to see if he likes it. He's not as fussy as I am when it comes to pillows, but it may be good for him too. Point is, I'm happy enough to recommend it to people and buy another one for a loved one so that might help whoever is reading this. Anyhow. That's my review. The end.


