1344384000
4.0
review/summary: Very nice carpet cleaner!review/text: I should say, first of all, that this is the first carpet cleaner I've ever had, so I have nothing to compare it to. My first reaction when opening the box was, Wow, this is CHEAPY-looking! It was all plastic, looked dirty and used (although it probably wasn't), and a whole 5-inch piece of plastic had broken off the base. I did NOT want to go through the hassle of returning it and waiting for a new one, and fortunately Amazon gave us a 10% credit ($14) so we kept it, as it was.When I finally got the nerve to use the vac--I was so scared!--I did three rooms--and then it quit. OK, I thought, there it goes, Just like all the reviews say. Check the dirty water lid; make sure that''s on right. That's supposed to be THE major reason vacs shut off. So I removed it and re-did it. No good. I tried it over and over five times. It made no difference. OK, there goes my $139 vac. I was already trying to decide what to buy next. Another Hoover? or just a cheap Walmart brand?Well, it turned out that even though the lid was on right, a "cup" that was inside the dirty water cabin was loose. My son figured that out. So, then I had a perfect cleaner again!Comments:1. I did every room very carefully and two times. You may still get dirty water after that. My dirty water was very BLACK--coffee with grinds.2. One gallon tank of clean/soapy water lasts about one room or less. The dirty water will also have to be emptied about that often.3. I did NOT have any leaking.4. VERY few visible spots were cleaned up that could not be cleaned up by anything else. In other words, this is not a magic cleaner!5. This is not a heavy carpet cleaner. My floor vac is just a bit lighter than this is.6. Allow 3-4 hours for a carpet just washed over one time, to dry.7. It's very user-friendly, despite all the scary instructions!8. My complaint is: How can you tell when the clean water tank is empty? I would be "cleaning" with no soapy water left at all, and I had no way to tell!9. I have only had this cleaner a week and have not used the attachments yet, so I cannot comment or complain about them yet!


