1358812800
5.0
review/summary: Very happy with this purchase!review/text: I purchased this espresso maker after a prolonged comparison search on the internet and I am very happy with it. I wasn't interested (or capable) in spending a couple grand for a top of the line machine, my price range was up to around $400. I searched & searched the internet for reviews and found this machine brought up numerous times. The price was less than 1/4 of what I had planned to spend, which was good from a financial point, but a bit concerning from a quality point. Upon arrival, I cleaned everything up as directed in the instructions. Initially, I was using preground espresso beans, and they worked very well with this machine. I had recently been given a low end burr grinder for Christmas and I did find some issues when I started to grind the beans myself. I ground the beans to, what appeared to me anyway, the same size as the preground beans I had initially used. Things did not work well! The espresso came out very watery and with no crema. I ground the beans down to a smaller size (which appeared much smaller than the preground espresso beans I purchased) and they still didn't work. I was about to give up, but I decided to turn the grinder to its finest setting and give it 1 more try. When I put the finest ground beans into the machine, it brewed up a very nice espresso with a thick layer of crema. I prefer lattes over straight espressos or cappuccinos and I was very happy with the first cafe mocha that came out. I've tried a few other lattes and they've all turned out very well. The frothing wand works great. The first frothing I did ended up being more of a cappuccino form than a latte form, but I learned my lesson and I haven't made the mistake again. I've only been using it for about a week, but I am very happy with it so far!UPDATE:I've continued using this machine most every day and things are just getting better. The low end grinder is still working great too. The first lattes I made using this machine tasted fine, but I couldn't get the froth to the level I wanted it. Since the flavor was okay, I wasn't too concerned about the froth, in fact, I had accepted it the way it was. Then one day, I was frothing up my milk and I noticed it was very evenly aired. It had a very nice shine to it. I pounded it on the table a few times to ensure a nice mixture of the air and liquid and started the shot brewing. I made the mistake of letting the frothed milk sit without movement for a few minutes and I noticed the air appeared to have bubbled back up to the top of the milk. The next day, I made sure I kept the frothed milk spinning around while the espresso brewed and when I poured it into the espresso, it looked different than I had seen before in my lattes. It looked like the lattes I see on the internet where I have been attempting to learn proper technique. The air bubbles were nicely mixed into the entire liquid of the milk and it appeared even and thick. After pouring it into the espresso, there was a nice large spot of milk in the middle of the espresso. I took a picture of it immediately and I have posted a short video of the first latte I made & then the most recent latte I made. I really thought it would take a more expensive machine to get a proper froth, but it wasn't the machine, it was my technique that was causing the problem. This machine makes a fairly good espresso and does a great job frothing. I don't particularly like straight espresso, so I don't need a perfect espresso to come out of the machine. I absolutely love the lattes this machine produces. I personally use Torani dark chocolate sauce & even add an occasional additional Torani flavor to my lattes & they taste great! I'm a very satisfied customer of this machine, especially for the price!


