1354406400
3.0
review/summary: I liked it until the motor stopped working in high speed after 10 monthsreview/text: This juicer has a limited 1-year warranty so I only have a few months left to try and get it fixed or replaced. Trying to get a hold of support at Breville has so far not been fruitful (pardon the pun). On the phone, I've been put on hold twice for long periods and gave up, thinking I'd try email support. I wrote them a week ago and have not heard back. So, basically, right now I'm stuck with a juicer that only works in low speed for soft vegetables/fruits, not celery, carrots, apples, beets, etc. I don't want to return it to Amazon, because it's not their fault it stopped working. The pulp has always been fairly wet, but now in low speed, it's even more so.The cleanup is rather tiresome but I think is a fact of life with most juicers. You have to be committed to the health benefits to stick with it. I think the Omega juicers are easier to clean.If it were still working right, I'd have given it a 4 to 4.5.UPDATE 12/16/12After not hearing back from Breville's online support after approximately 10 days, I decided to try to call again. It was 15 minutes before the 5 PM closing time on a Tuesday. The phone was picked up on the second ring by a very friendly and helpful gentleman (wish I'd have gotten his name). He said a case # had already been assigned to my complaint (from my email) and that all I needed to do was to provide a copy of the Amazon invoice (which was easily done by cutting & pasting from the Amazon site into an email back to Breville). Once that was received, according to him, they'd email me a PREPAID shipping label and I just needed to take the juicer to a FedEx shipment center. The shipping label was received the following day, I dropped the juicer off at FedEx. Very easy. According to Breville,once the juicer is received and inspected, a NEW replacement juicer will be sent out within 7-10 days!! Wooohoooo! Assuming I receive the new juicer, I will have totally changed my opinion of Breville customer support (note to others: consider not using email support and trying calling toward the end of the day) and my rating of the juicer will change to 4 or 5 stars. I will also change my use of the juicer. I'll re-read the instructions and will not run the motor on high for longer than a few seconds (I used to keep it running on high the entire 2-3 minutes of juicing celery, beets, cucumbers & spinach and probably only needed the high speed for the celery & beets. I'll also try rubbing olive oil on the clear plastic parts (as suggested on the web site) to see if that will keep them from clouding. Thank you, Breville, for being responsive to a problem.


