1348963200
4.0
review/summary: Excellent buy, for the money...review/text: The reason why I ordered this product is because I am going broke buying K-Cups for my Keurig machine. With the wife and I each having 3 cups per day, I am at about $100 a month in coffee.So when I saw this item I figured it would pay for itself in about a week, and I was right! It makes a nice cup, plenty hot, and although the mug isnt fancy, it serves the purpose. I have read the other reviews, and the negatives listed do have merit so I thought I would just offer some advice on how to use this machine successfully.You need to strike a balance between how much water and how much coffee you put in. Too much of both, and you will see the the water doesnt strain through the coffee fast enough, and the coffee/hot water mixture can overflow from the strainer basket into the reservoir, leaving you a mess. I have been using about 8 oz of water to 2 level tablespoons of grounds. Overflow is minimized, and the coffee is strong enough for me at this ratio. I do wish I was able to get that big mug filled (I think it holds 12 oz), but the amount of coffee I yield is about the same size as a "large" setting on the Keurig machine, so I guess I didnt lose anything in terms of volume.Let the coffee pour into the mug without the lid on. The coffee tends to sit on the lid before getting in the mug and it has the potential to cool. This may be the cause of the coffee temperature problems another reviewer mentioned.Brew time is about a minute and a half - a little bit of a wait, but thinking about the money I am saving passes the time. If you give it the time it needs, the dripping is minimized greatly as one would expect.Clean up is incredibly easy. I basically just rinse the strainer and basket under running water. If any grounds get into the reservoir, I pick the entire coffeemaker up and run it under my kitchen faucet. It's so small, it easily gets in the sink, and takes less than 30 seconds to clean off anything that has coffee on it.The machine automatically shuts off after all of the water runs through, so no worries about wasting energy. This is a nice feature.Certainly not perfect, but at about 20 bucks definately worth the investment!


