1356048000
4.0
review/summary: Good suction!review/text: This vacuum is not very big,but do you need a SUV? The suction is so good it pulls up a lot of the probably cheap (new) carpet in my apartment. It sucks more of the carpet than i see dust! Suction is NOT a problem if youre on the edge with this one!The bagless container... Small particles or powders do get wedged inside the crevices and grooves on the opening from the vacuum to the container. Say if you get carpet powder scent/deodorizer... It will pick it up,but when emptying your vacuum container you will see a lot of power along the grooves! I also felt that I felt some of the powder being pumped back out of the vacuum! I will no longer use that product(the scent powder)on my rug! Other than that problem the vacuum is very good! I am sure you might be able to get better,but you will not be dissatisfied with your purchase!The cord is very long for this smaller vacuum so that is good!The hose (that comes with one brush attachment) does not suck that well though which is funny because I do not find the suction on the floor vacuum to &#34;weak&#34; like i do the hose!My only &#34;problem&#34;/draw back......The bagless container isnt very big. It fills(but I am sure its my rug as i stated) too quickly! Though it still sucks great when it is half way filled with the contents (dust/dirt/CARPET) though because the container is smaller the contents do not flow around inside,they stick or slow to almost no movement, but it still sucks up the dirt!Cleaning the filter needs to be done outside by a garbage! I use gloves and a old toothbrush! It does get dusty/dirty!Its a buy if you need something for a mid-sized to small apartment that has wall to wall carpeting! Great on hard floors and would probably be best one an area rug!Scores High on....1)Suction2)The length of the power cord3)Mobility4)WeightScores Low on...1)Hose suction2)Bagless container (its not thaaat small,but its a smaller vacuum so what do you expect?)


