1356480000
4.0
review/summary: No more Popeye arms!review/text: I ordered the KitchenAid Mixer 5 qtrs. (in cobalt blue, head titling model) last year for Christmas. It arrived in a couple of days before the holiday, which was quite nice. While it was sleek, shiny, and new, I had a few problems. I tested it out by making some cookie dough and while it was able to handle creaming butter and sugar, it really struggled after I had put flour in. I ended up having to mix the rest by hand. I cleaned up, unplugged the machine and went to bed. The next day I turned the machine on and was in total shock to find that the machine was making an indescribable sound. It was too noisy and chaotic to be normal.We called customer service. I will say, KitchenAid probably has the nicest customer service in all the world. Without trying to look for a way out of the warranty or blaming me for something I may have done, they promptly apologized for the inconvenience and gave me instructions to return the mixer. While I missed out using the mixer for the rest of my Christmas cookies, a replacement model arrived just a few days into the new year. While still beaming from the delight of having a new new mixer, I was still apprehensive about using it for fear that it break like the other. However, over the course of the last year, it has held up well to making meringues, lady fingers, sugar cookies and about 8 varieties of Christmas cookies.Of the machine itself: It is quite nice and sleek, really sexy. There are two nobs on either side of the head, one for setting speed (10 speeds), and one for locking the head in place. The front of the head has a removable silver plate for extras (pasta maker, grinder, etc.). The bowl is quite nice and large (I never realized how large 5 quarts was until now). The mixer came with three attachments: The flat beater (for most of your mixing needs), the wire whisk (whipping up cream or egg whites), and the dough hook (for making dough, I personally haven't used this attachment). All of them are made of heavy durable metal, the beater and hook are coated in some sort of plastic. It should be noted that while you can machine wash the two attachments that have the coating, the wire whisk cannot be machine washed. The machine also came with a pouring shield, an instruction manual/recipe book, an attachment list (with compatible model numbers), and warranty information.My only critique is that it seems to make a lot of noise at lower speeds. It could just be my imagination after dealing with my lemon.Advice: If you use your product frequently, you should check the bowl/beater clearance every so often. Always clean and unplug your model when not in use.All and all, I highly recommend this product as it has saved me hours of time and back breaking labor. No more Popeye forearms from mixing 8 batches of cookies.


