1360886400
5.0
review/summary: Smooth, hot coffee even after a couple of hoursreview/text: I bought this for valentines day this year. I wish I had bought it a few years ago.Our previous machine's burner was looking like it had the mumps. Also, my mother likes to have a thermos of coffee in her room prepared the night before. So, I began looking for a machine with a thermal coffee carafe that was not too expensive. This machine seemed like it had the best balance of price and reviews. At the same time, I purchased [[ Medelco #4 Cone Permanent Coffee Filter ]] (as recommended by another reviewer), a spare carafe Cuisinart DTC-975TC12BSS 12-Cup Stainless Thermal Carafe with lid, Black ]] (for my wife and myself) and [[ Caf&eacute; Britt Coffee, 12-Ounce Bags ]] (to try a new fair trade coffee).When my wife brought me a mug of coffee from this new machine, It was smooth and hot three hours afters she had first made it for herself (we have quite different sleep schedules). I thought that it was some of the new coffee that I had bought. However, it was the remainder of a bag that we both hated and were looking forward to finishing. Same coffee, different machine. What a difference a new machine makes! I'm glad that I spent the extra money.Of course, not everything is perfect. Here are some issues you should consider. The pot is very substantial but VERY heavy. I guess that explains why it keeps the coffee so warm. The lid is interesting. It stays on the whole time: from brewing, storing, pouring until cleaning. It has a closed position and a pour position. It is important to close it to keep the coffee warm for long periods. It is also important to put the top in the correct position for pouring. Finally, I was disappointed by the flow. It does not pour as quickly as a standard glass carafe (which is expected). One feature that I would have liked would have been a built in grinder. However, even the bad, pre-ground beans tasted good in this machine. So, perhaps, I really did hit the sweet spot in terms of price and performance. Without the grinder, we have one less thing to go wrong.Unless you really want one of the $200+ machines, I strongly suggest this machine. I would not try to save $30 bucks and buy a standard Black and Decker or Mr. Coffee. After three hours sitting, this machine produces coffee as good as a 5-star restaurant (right after brewing).


