1352246400
2.0
review/summary: Gone are the days of quality - Read about nylon gears.review/text: For All metal gears look hereKitchenAid KP26M1PSL Professional 600 Series 6-Quart Stand Mixer, SilverAll I wanted was a kitchenaid like my mothers. One that is still alive after 20+ years.I was given this one. Excited as I went off to the races mixing and beating and kneading.And then it started in the first 6 months. The locking didnt lock well, the gears began to grind, and the top began popping up and down. Further research showed me that these new artisans are NOT the same and have PLASTIC (EDIT: NYLON) gears that wear down and begin having issues. Mine is only getting worse with time. I have always followed their recommendations as to max amounts, especially with bread kneading but alas my gears still began to break down.KitchenAid customer service claimed to me this change was made for engineering purposes, however, I believe this is economic purposes.If Nylon pieces break down maybe they're cheaper in the first place, or maybe the fact that some users will have to replace the entire mixer.Everyone I know with an old KitchenAid mixer from 20+ years ago still has theirs in perfect condition AND kneaded bread with them. So you do the math.Their customer service also claimed to me if I want all metal gear assembly to purchase a more expensive version.Their exact response to me as follows:"Thank you for visiting the KitchenAid web site! We appreciate the opportunity to respond to your inquiry. I apologize for any inconvenience.In response to your concern regarding the construction of the Stand Mixer gearbox and gears, KitchenAid has made the decision to change to an all metal gearbox on most of the larger mixers, the Pro 600 6 QT, not because of problems with the plastic transmission cover, but because KitchenAid is always looking for ways to try new materials and update all of our appliances, and this change was an engineering decision.I can assure you that both the plastic and the metal housings are extremely durable and should have a long life under normal use. The Artisan is produced with nylon and metal gearing."I'm so dissapointed overall, especially considering these come with dough hooks(ie should be able to handle the wear/tear) AND I always followed manufacturer recommendations of use.My advice? Spend the money the first time and go for the Pro 600 6 QT. I've heard other ones in the pro series at 450watts or higher are all metal gears also. A MUST have for kneading bread or fast mixing.


