1345852800
4.0
review/summary: Hotter? Cheaper? More convenient? Yes, yes, yes!review/text: These days, everyone has a single cup coffee maker at their house, in the office, at the gym, etc. And why wouldn't you want one? As a mom, the convenience of making just one cup of coffee can't be beat. I don't have the time or inclination to drink a whole pot while I'm home alone with the kids. So I did what everyone does, and I got a small, personal Keurig, thinking that making an 8 oz cup would be perfect. However, the coffee wasn't hot enough, 8 oz wasn't enough, and I didn't like buying k-cups. Then, I found out about the Black n Decker Brew n Go.What is it?The Black n Decker Brew n Go is a single cup, drip coffee maker that can brew any amount of coffee up to 15 oz, depending on how much water and coffee you put into the machine. It has a washable, reusable filter, and it comes with a dishwasher safe, stainless steel travel mug.The Good:The Black n Decker Brew n Go is an extremely inexpensive coffee maker, especially since it comes with a quality travel mug that alone would cost close to the price of this brewer. I was unsure how the quality would be for such a low price, but I've been using it for several months now without any functional breakdown. It is simple to use. All you have to do is measure out the amount of water that you want, up to 15 oz, and pour it into the reservoir. Then, measure your coffee grounds (1 scoop per 6 oz water is recommended) and pour them into the reusable filter. Stick your mug under the drip spout, and push the power button. 3 minutes later, your steaming (and I mean steaming!) hot cup of coffee is ready to drink. This extremely convenient set up allows you to get everything ready at night so that in the morning, you need only push the power button and your coffee will be ready. It is also wonderful to be able to use any coffee grounds that you wish without worrying about k-cups, pods, etc. It makes it easy to make a custom blend such as half regular, half decaf, etc.The Bad:There are definitely fewer negatives than positives, but there are a couple of things that could be better. First, the fill line in the reservoir is difficult to see unless you have a bright light on the machine. After a while you learn to eyeball it, but in the beginning that could be a problem. Second, as other reviewers have mentioned, it is possible to occasionally get some grounds in your coffee from the swell during brewing. However, if you useMelitta 620122 40 Count #1 Natural Brown Cone Coffee Filtersinstead of the reusable filter that comes with the brewer, much of this issue can be avoided.The Bottom Line:While there are some minor inconveniences to using this machine, the HOT coffee, ease of use, and low price make this a serious contender in the single cup brewer market.


