1360972800
2.0
review/summary: Smelly and loud is someone else review and it's spot onreview/text: At first I was skeptical because this product has many GOOD reviews but it also has many BAD and very bad reviews.Sadly I'm going to be another one of the bad ones.I'll make it quick and painless1. This thing is loud as F*&# -- even on the lowest setting.. on the lowest setting it can be heard from the opposite side of the house and it's still louder then the stand up model Honeywell I have. At the highest setting this thing sounds like an aircraft carrier taking off.. no joke -- I can't even hear the other air purifiers I have at the opposite end of the house when I'm sitting right next to them when this thing is blowing air in another room... It's LOUD- You can hear it through 2 closed doors like it's nothing ...2. The pre-filter / filter itself smell like rubber / manufacturing -- the smell isn't horrible .. but it's strong enough that when the thing is blowing you can smell it.. it almost has a musty smell... it doesn't make the air smell fresh .. it makes it smell like a manufacturing plant.3. If you are going to buy a replacement filter for the thing which they recommend you have to buy 3 to fit the 1 that it comes with. They do not sell an exact replacement they have split it into three parts -- and each one costs 80 bucks... so it's going to cost you more than the cost of a new unit to get replacement filters ( which they recommend you replace every year ... -- yes you can buy the third party / aftermarket ones here on amazon for about 80-90 bucks but if I'm buying a product I expect the replacement parts to be OEM ... maybe that's just me ...4. The power usage on this bad boy is just downright ridiculous. It makes sense judging from the amount of sound it makes ... but this thing on high pulls the same amount as a toaster or as my vacuum cleaner-- I recorded it on high to use about 800 WPS ( watts per second ) at medium about 500 and on low about 300 -- This all adds up when you keep this thing running all year long which you are going to need to do. My honeywell standup model uses 80 WPS on high 50 on medium and 30 on low and kicks out plenty of air. (( I'm not going to get into the math on transferring WPS into cost per year as it all depends on how long you are running it for and I have a long spreadsheet of every item in my house and how much it uses but just know that this thing is power hungry and you're going to be paying at least another 30-40 bucks on your electricity bill if you run this thing on high all month.Overall I'm very disappointed in this product... if you are deaf or don't mind the sound of living in a wind tunnel .. then by all means .. by this ... but if you're like me and you prefer to be able to hear things in your house ( especially when the wife is calling ... find something else ) .... then again .. maybe some of you wouldn't mind something to cover up the wife's / husbands calls ... food for thought... :P


