1356566400
5.0
review/summary: Some things I hope you'll find helpfulreview/text: I've just received this for Christmas so I've only been using it for 2 days. I'll come back in the future and add more to this review, but right now I wanted to throw out a few things. I'd seen people asking if it is BPA FREE. Mine came from Amazon the second week in December, and it says right on the box "BPA FREE". From what I understand, the 'old stock' units were not BPA free. Amazon seems to be shipping fresh ones!I find the compact flat cover that comes with this model to be invaluable. I don't have a dishwasher and must hand-wash, so having the option of using the smaller and easier-to-clean compact cover when chopping and mixing was very attractive to me. Easy to wash, easy to store. There is a small cup in the flat cover that pops right out so you can pour in liquid or add a few cloves of garlic or whatever small and you don't need to take the cover off to do it. Smart!It's confusing to figure out which blade to use for dough. On the DVD, it says to only use the plastic dough blade for YEAST dough. What about pasta? Then in the manual, it says if the recipe calls for more than 3.5 cups of flour, use the plastic dough blade...but use the metal blade for less than 3.5 cups. I did find this note helpful: "recommended maximum amount of flour is: 4 cups of all-purpose flour or 2.5 cups of whole-grain flour". Anyway, I made focaccia bread using 2 3/4 cups of white flour and the plastic dough hook and it came out beautifully!I thought I might chop up some escarole for soup, but even though I only pulsed quickly 3 times it really pulverized it too fine. Have to be real careful about over-processing. The 4mm slicing disc that comes with it is kind of thick. I will be ordering a 2mm one soon. They also sell a julienne disc separately, but I noticed in the manual that it shows how to julienne and matchstick food by "double slicing" it. I'm going to try to make french fries using their method and if it works it will save me from having to buy the julienne disc. Will let you know how it turns out!Otherwise, so far I love it. It is quiet, small enough to fit on the shelf in my island cart, not too heavy to lift in and out, and it was even fun to watch the DVD that came with it. It is just a few minutes of a woman demonstrating the parts, then you get an hour of a French chef showing recipes to make. The DVD demonstrates a larger model of the Pro Classic, one that does not come with the flat cover. Don't fret, it shows you in the manual how to put it on and off. That's it for now, I'll add more when I get some experience using it!


