1355184000
5.0
review/summary: Just what I was looking for!review/text: First off, I know that Consumer Reports failed this heater in its tests, but I bought one anyway simply because I don't believe that an efficient heater automatically needs to be a gluttonous energy consumer. I am very happy with this heater; at it's low (400 watt) setting it gives off a mellow, perfectly adequate heat as I work in my office at the computer; I haven't felt the need to bump it up to 800 watts yet. I reside in an older, not well-insulated home, and the Optimus H-5210 suits my purposes fine. I don't enjoy listening to fans blowing heated air (which always seems to cool rapidly by the time it reaches you), and I don't enjoy the use of inefficient appliances, relative to any application of the word 'green'. This heater is just fantastic on all counts!I would advise, as a safety precaution, to keep potentially flammable materials well-clear of this unit, and don't place anything that could ignite over the top of it, since that's where Consumer Reports indicated trouble with this particular heater. It seems like common sense to me, but just to be safe....I bought a single Optimus H-5210 heater, sort of as a test to see if I would like it and/or find it useful for my needs, and I do, so I will be purchasing another unit, or units in short order. My caution around purchases such as this unit comes from a previous purchase of four Econo-Heat units about 6 years ago, a single unit of which ran approximately 3 times the price of one Optimus H-5210. The Econo-Heat units were rated at 400 watts each and they worked very well, while they worked...all of them have failed now. Two of the Econo-Heat units cracked to the point of failure and uselessness within the first year, and two of them shorted out since - nearly catching fire, thankfully, the Econo-Heat units that shorted out did so while I was in the vicinity and I was therefore able to unplug them before anything catastrophic occurred.With a healthy dose of good old-fashioned common sense and a judicious use of these heaters, I expect to get through this winter just as warm and comfortable as I could want! And, at a lower cost than the majority of portable space heaters on the market currently.


