1357776000
5.0
review/summary: Real Review from a Real Personreview/text: After an exhaustive search on juicers and reading many misguided and useless reviews, I decided to go with the Omega J8005 Juicer. Most of the reviews I found seemed to be very misleading and some were complete lies. Here is what I found to be true about this juicer.-This is a &#34;nutrition center&#34; which means that it comes with additional pieces for dough, pasta and other such needs. I did not try these out yet, but it at least offers additional functions.-It is very heavy and solid. The auger is a heavy duty plastic and is sturdy. The feeder, juice screen and end cap are a lighter plastic but not really needed to be any heavier. The housing around the auger and part of the feeder is lighter and clear which is useful when monitoring for juice/pulp. Overall, I do not get the impression that any of the plastic parts are cheaply made.-The manual recommends juicing for no more than 30 minutes at a time. This is to protect the motor. After about 20 minutes, you will feel motor housing get warm. This does not affect the juice in any way.-The feeder tube is small, but once you see how it juices, this is more understandable. The auger moves the vegetable/fruit through a smaller and smaller space to produce the juice. If the feeder tube were larger, then the auger would have to be much longer. I was able to cut pieces to about 1&#34; and it worked with no problems. Anyone handy with a kitchen knife can do this in no time at all or you can use a mandolin slicer to aid in cutting the smaller pieces. At 1&#34; I found that the pieces do not need to be pushed down through the tube (for carrots, celery, limes, etc). Even at 1&#34;, leafy greens still require pushing, but with moderate to light force only.-Juicing is slower than other types of juicers but it produces more juice with less product.-The noise is very minimal. I would compare it to the same level as an electric can opener.-When juicing firmer vegetables like carrots, you will notice the plastic &#34;wiggle&#34; a little bit. I actually found it useful. The slight give actually prevents the clogging of the auger which would lead to burning out the motor. The amount of &#34;wiggle&#34; was proportional to the size and amount of the item I was placing in the feeder tube. If I tried to put too much, you would see more &#34;wiggle&#34;. I did not get the impression that the plastic was being strained in any way.-The pulp comes out dry but not completely dry. This is probably standard for most juicers. I did find that you could run some of the wetter pulp back through and get even more juice. For the most part, this was not required.-The pulp container is easy to dump and rinse while in the middle of juicing.-The juice container is a good size. I didn't measure it, but estimate it to be able to hold at least 20-24 ounces of juice at least.-It comes with a strainer to help with foam and pulp.-The resulting juice is of good quality. I found that there was hardly if any pulp still in the juice after straining in the included strainer. When drinking, I did not get a textured feel to the juice like I have with other products.-While juicing leafy greens and carrots, I did notice that the auger would hold onto some of the pulp (after 10-15 minutes of juicing). At the time, I think it was because I was not mixing vegetables like the manual recommends. I was juicing 1 type of vegetable at a time. It was fairly noticeable when this occured, as you will see a small amount of juice in the housing for the auger. Despite other reviewers comments, this juice never got back into the motor housing. To correct the issue, simply stop the machine, pull off the end cap, then slide out the juice strainer and auger. Knock off the pulp on the auger and rinse both pieces. Put the machine back together and you are back to juicing. It took me about 15-30 seconds to do this. I have only had to do it when juicing for an extended amount of time.-There are exactly 7 pieces to clean after normal juicing and it is very very easy to re-assemble. The only piece requiring additional effort is the juice strainer. Using the included brush made this an easier task. The other pieces come clean with just a light rinse. All told, a soap and water cleaning should take you about 2-3 minutes.-Juicing results so far: 1lb carrots = 8oz juice. 1 bunch of spinach = 6oz juice. 1 bunch of parsley = 2-3oz. 1 bunch of Turnip greens = 6oz juice. 1 bunch of celery = 8+oz juice (2 stalks = 2oz).-I did not witness any warming of the juice. I refrigerated the vegatables before juicing and the juice came out at about the same temperature. The juicing is slower so depending on how long the juicing session lasts, your juice may be warmer, but only because it has gotten closer to room temperature. You could prevent this by pre-cutting your vegetables and keeping them in serving size containers/plastic in the fridge.Overall, I would recommend this to anyone looking for good quality juice from a masticating juicer. The juicer is quiet (so good for early morning juicing). The juicer yields a good amount of juice for the amount of product. It is very easy to clean (I am really lazy so this is important). The need to have such small pieces is a negative in that it adds to juicing time. The occasional clogging of the auger is a negative, but not a big one since it is so easy to address. The additional functionality beyond juicing is a plus above comparably priced juicers.I would definitely buy this juicer again.


