1358035200
4.0
review/summary: So far so good!review/text: We've had this dehydrator about a week and have made three separate batches of kale crunch (aka kale chips) that are as good as, nay better than (I make a mean sauce for them in the blender), the ones we buy at our neighborhood "Whole Paycheck." Because the kale crunch is so addictive, my husband and I must have spent hundreds purchasing the 2 oz bags of cheesy chipotle kale crunch that cost $5 each at the store. We decided we needed to do something about the drain this was putting on our bank account. We did our research on dehydrators and didn't feel ready to commit to the more expensive ones, so my husband went ahead and bought this one. Turns out we made the right decision for our needs. After we made our batches of snacks, I commented to my husband on how amazing it is that something so simple can do such an efficient job. This Nesco is great for beginners.What's good:+Simple design allows for easy assembly/disassembly.+Easy storage. The entire unit can be taken apart easily and stored separately.+Efficient dehydrating.+Straightforward controls (may be a con for some - see below)+Easy cleanup. The lid houses the fan and heat, so the body of the unit minus the lid can be dunked into a sink full of soapy water.+Not too large and unwieldy. I have this on the counter next to the stove in our little apartment kitchen and surprisingly I'm left with enough space to chop and do other things as well (the size could be a con for some - see below).+No need to worry about stuff dripping onto a bottom fan since the fan is in the lid.+Transportability. I would like to take this with me when I travel to visit family so I gave its ease of travel a little thought. All you really need is the lid and a couple trays, which wouldn't be too difficult to pack separately between layers of clothes (the trays would need to be wrapped of course).+Steady fan noise that sounds like the air is on, although we don't hear it in the bedroom.What isn't so good:-Because of the shape and size of the trays there's only so much stuff we can get on each tray. Luckily, it does come with five trays and more can be ordered and stacked on.-No timer (this actually isn't a big deal for me because I set my stove timer).-It comes with a couple mats to put on the main trays, but they don't look like the kind you could pour liquidy batter for raw cookies on without losing most of it to leak through, so I'm not sure how good this will be for the advanced raw food recipes (we'll figure this out with time and use).-Controls aren't digital - could be an issue for some.-Seems to dehydrate a lot better with two trays than with five trays, but this may be affected by other variables as well (if need be, will update this as we use it more).The more success we have with this dehydrator, the more raw snack recipes we want to try. My husband likes jerky so we will try that soon also. I'll admit that at first I wasn't too sure about this product because I'm one of those people who will often jump to the one-star reviews to see if the complaints are serious enough to warrant skipping the product. The one review that concerned me talks about the electrical problem with the unit and its recall. That scared me quite a bit and I almost convinced my husband not to get it. What helped was that my husband's former roommate has had it for a few years without issue, so my husband felt pretty confident about it after speaking to him. As a precaution we do try to run it when at least one of us is available to check on it periodically. Hopefully nothing serious will happen, in which case we hope to have a long relationship with this dehydrator. I'll add an update to this review after we've had the dehydrator for a while and gotten more use out of it.


