1347235200
5.0
review/summary: New to juicing? This one's a winner!review/text: My family decided to start juicing for the health and cancer fighting benefits provided. We had never juiced and the Breville juicers seemed to be getting great reviews. We purchased the BJE510XL Ikon 900-Watt Variable-Speed Juice Extractor and could not be happier. I was concerned about the clean up since so many family/friends shy away from juicing because of the cleanup. But this one seems about as quick as can be. Any unit will require some cleanup but 5 minutes does it for this. Remove the parts, rinse them under the water, clean the filter with the included brush and we're all set. They say the parts are dishwasher safe, but we have opted to handwash them so far.The unit itself is super easy. The most time consuming part of the process is preparing the veggies and fruits. But I like the juice from this unit because it's got a bit of pulp to it so is more filling. I just finished a 3-day juice fast and used this unit for 3 hours at a time making a variety of juices. It just kept going till the basket needed to be emptied. I just put a compost bag into the basket before starting and out comes the entire bunch of fiber, which my dogs love by the way. Even if you don't compost, it's a great way to eliminate part of the cleanup.And it's so easy to stop and start too. I'm making up recipes as I go so I often put one or two things in, stop the unit and taste, then add items as needed. I just put a small cup under the spout when I remove the collection pitcher in case of drips, and I start and stop bunches of times trying to come up with some delicious juices ... which I have!!Juicing is a great way to get kids to eat their veggies too. Amazing what veggies can be hidden by an apple and a carrot!!The only negative that I can come up with is that with certain items with small seeds, like concord grapes, a few of the seeds can fly out before you can put the pusher part back in. I've opted to tape a piece of newspaper up behind the unit to protect the wall when I am juicing with such items. But that's really no big deal and haven't seen a seed yet in the juice itself.So while I've only had this unit a few months, it's gotten a ton of use and I love it!!!


