1357344000
4.0
review/summary: Great juicer! I highly recommend for green juice.review/text: This is an excellent juicer for green vegetable juice. Fruits don&#8217;t juice very well. The fruit pulp will tend to clog the screen and you will have to stop and rinse the screen. It will remove a good amount of juice from fruit but it is a chore. Because it will not juice fruit very well is the reason I gave it only 4 stars. That is a con. Another con is the feed tube size, it is only a little over 1 inches in diameter. I have found if I julienne all the hard veggies and chop all the leafy greens and mix it all together before I feed it through it works much better. Those are the cons and what prevents this juicer from being a 5 star because let me tell you how wonderful the juice is if you go through that little bit of work.If prepped properly the veggies go through without problem and no clogging. I can make a gallon of green juice without cleaning the screen! I buy all my produce and make my juice the same day yielding the freshest and highest quality juice. This juicer produces very little foam and minimal oxidization occurs when I store it in mason jars for 3 days. I even drank the last jar on the fourth day and it tasted fine. The flavors mellow as it ages (probably not a good thing) but I can tell it still packs a very nutritional punch even after 3 days in the fridge. I do this because I am a full time student and I work part time. Juicing every fourth day saves me so much time. It takes me less than 3 hours to wash, prep, juice, and clean up my machine and mess.I am taking in so many servings and varieties of vegetables I would normally never consume. My green juice recipe includes cucumber, celery, carrots, parsley, spinach, kale, chard, watercress, asparagus, apple, and lemon. I was sure it was going to taste nasty but I love it! It is very energizing like a natural energy drink.I have lost 22 lbs in 16 days eating mostly raw vegetable and fruit. I have more energy and I feel healthier. I am convinced this is a much better way to live. By being an example for my girlfriend she is now starting to juice. My kids even try my juice but prefer the fruit juices. If you are interested just check out youtube and you will find tons of help.I bought the Breville blender on Amazon for my fruit. I make fresh fruit smoothies with almond milk in the blender and juice my veggies. So far it has been an amazing journey and I invite you to try it out yourself.


