1352764800
5.0
review/summary: Best Storage Idea in a Century!review/text: Not since people have been able to buy vacuum sealed jars and cans of food that will remain safe on a pantry shelf for years has there been the capability to reproduce those results in the home kitchen except through the canning process. No one is going to that much trouble for leftovers unless there's a very large quantity. With only my husband and I left at home, I need to be able to take smaller amounts of things from purchased foods and save what's left in a manner that I know will preserve freshness for a few days. These caps do that for me. I even chop a whole head of Romaine lettuce and stuff it tightly into either pint or quart jars, seal them, and have a head start on a great salad for a whole week ahead, and the lettuce is still fresh and crisp 6 days later! There's no browning at all using this method. I live in a humid place, so it's also perfect for dry grains like cornmeal, oatmeal, barley and anything else that needs to stay very dry. There's no danger of bugs, either! I have a couple of cases each of quart and pint Ball jars, and quite a few 4 oz. jars as well in which I make and store condiments and dressings of all kinds. That little whoosh you hear when the Food Saver breaks away from the cap just makes me smile, because I am confident that I am storing our precious expensive food in the very best manner available because I have seen the results myself. Food really is saved, because it lasts longer and stays fresher.We typically buy the larger size of coffee because it costs less that way, but I remove it all and store it in my canning jars. It does keep the coffee really fresh that way, using only one jar at a time, but beware when you break that vacuum, because coffee will fly out! Just cover the jar with a dish towel to contain the small amount that escapes when you first open it. I don't vaccum seal it again after I've opened one because we use it up fairly quickly, but all the other jars are nice and snug while they wait in the pantry.


