1353542400
2.0
review/summary: Already deadreview/text: The steel shaft which transmits power from the motor to the blade is driven by a nylon socket. My socket is already chewed up. Cost to make that socket out of stainless steel? Probably well under $1.00*. Cost to irritate a customer, priceless.The tool was a wonderful eye-opener / horizon expander while it worked. I just expected it to work more than 5-6 times.I've never given a two star rating to anything before, but this expensive kitchen gadget deserves the thumb down.&lt;edit / addendum 12/5/12> I'm going to try fixing this with a dab of JB Weld. I'm hoping that I can put some in the stripped out soft nylon drive hub, insert the mixer end to make the proper drive slot, pull it back out and let the JB dry. It's too good of a tool to give up on right away and I'm not inclined to buy another from Cuisinart even if I CAN fix it (that's not my job ... it's theirs). $35 for a kitchen tool that only lasted a couple months is simply more money than I feel like throwing away. I'll let you know if the repair works. But if it doesn't, A) I'm already spoiled on having an immersion blender B) the next one WON'T be from Cuisinart.Hey Cuisinart ... ARE YOU LISTENING? This is unhappy customer feedback on a VERY public forum! The motor to shaft coupling is TOO WEAK. I'm not the only person who has found out how easy it is to strip this part. Your design might look good on paper and using nylon might make sense from a financial point of view (molded vs machined) but it isn't handling the "real world" use of real people. Mine died in a pot of bean soup ... for cryin' out loud.Really? Is your blender too weak to handle 5-6 uses and a pot of bean soup?Dear Amazon ... if the fix doesn't work, how do I return this accursed thing? I'd even be satisfied if Cuisinart would ship me a METAL replacement part. I'm a retired machinist / die-maker ... I can't make the part anymore (no machine tools) but I could replace it if I had one in hand. It makes no sense for them to ship me a nylon replacement part unless they are willing to grab a handful and ship me a half-pound of parts -- the new parts would just strip out like the original did.If I have to replace this device I will ... but not with another Cuisinart. The reason I bought a Cuisinart was because I thought I was buying 'quality'. However, I'm a realist and since others are noting the identical defect, I'm thinking that Cuisinart might have made quality devices at one time, but it looks to me like they've decided to cheat the public by making junk and selling the 'perception of quality' by slapping their label on it. Cheat me once, shame on you. Cheat me twice ... uh, never mind, ain't gonna happen.* note: stainless steel is comparatively expensive to machine. This part could also be made of aluminum for 1/3 the cost of SS. The aluminum would probably never wear out. Even die-cast metals would last most of a lifetime at just pennies per part ... quite possibly within a cent or two of the cost of the nylon casting. Perhaps this is why Cuisinart went with the nylon part ... which wears out almost immediately as soon as even a small amount of stress is placed on it. My point is that Cuisinart could have made a quality part for well under a buck and I'd have gladly paid an extra $5.00 just because it was made by Cuisinart and I could trust it to last. I've got a Sunbeam counter top mixer that is nearing 40 years old and still works like new - even though I've worn the numbers off the speed dial. And I've got a Cuisinart immersion blender that died after its 5th or 6th use. I've always thought that Sunbeam was the 'low end' maker and that Cuisinart was the 'upscale'. But guess what? ... perception is NOT reality.&lt;/edit / addendum 12/5/12>


