1355184000
5.0
review/summary: Do NOT season it... try this instead.review/text: There is a very popular review detailing how to season the pan by encrusting it with Crisco and baking it in the oven at 500 degrees. I spent a lot of time researching the best way to season the pan and there are many conflicting reports on the best oil, and the best method to do it. I settled on Sheryl Canter's method using 6 very thin coats of very expensive flaxseed oil (google it if you're interested). And then baking each coat on for an hour at a time. I wasted $15, the whole day in a smoke filled house, and all I got was a nasty headache.Do you know what happened after a week of use? the seasoning started to flake off into my food. After all that work. Maybe I did it wrong. I've noticed I am not the only person to have this type of problem after trying to season their pan.Youtube "season skillet myth" by sandstone. This is essentially how I've been using my 9" lodge now. Basically after washing your skillet (even with soap if needed, gasp!!) shake off all water, wipe the outside with a towel, and put it on a burner for a few minutes until all water has evaporated. Then I take ~1tsp of olive oil (or whatever comes out of the bottle) and spread it into the pan with a paper towel while it is hot. You can set it aside now, and this is actually the common method for taking care of a cast iron pan.Now the next time you cook, use butter. I use ~1/4 of a tbsp. For some reason the combination of butter and olive oil that's in the pan gives what ever your cooking a very low viscosity. Eggs will literally slide around- even on the bumpy texture of a lodge pan. Try it before you waste your time trying to season your pan.I use my lodge 9" every single day now. It's awesome. I don't stress about someone using soap on it, or about how well the pan is seasoned. And I comfortably wash it with soap occasionally after cooking fish or if it's smelling a little funky.I love this cast iron pan. I had very little money when I fell in love with cooking and I'm so happy that you can spend a minuscule amount of cash and have something that will out perform, and outlive, any expensive fancy non stick pan out there.


