1358812800
3.0
review/summary: So far so good...review/text: The instructions are a bit wonky to interpret, and I'm the king of reading the directions. But once past that, everything seemed pretty straight-forward. The first time we used the machine, it worked perfectly. THe 2nd time when my wife tried to use it, the thing lost suction and a part fell off. I was so scared that this machine had broke already. When I took a look at it, I opened the dirty water lid, then put it back on more carefully... there is an opening that is meant for the hose that the lid closes off... if this opening is not closed off, the machine won't suck through the proper hole for floor cleaning, so ensuring the lid is on right is paramount.As for the part that fell off... a quick search on Hoover.com found me a schematic of the entire machine, and I found that this part is a 'Tubing Retainer clip'... however, I could not for the life of me figure out where it goes or where it came from or how it even fell off. Its not a part you need to install, so its not user error. Since the machine works fine, I figure its not integral for it to function, so just left it off.We don't bother to use the hand tool for 2 reasons: We already have a handy Green Machine for smaller jobs and tight areas, and the set-up to use attachments is just more of a complicated process. To use the hose... unlock the machine to its horizontal position, lift this door and turn it down 90 degress, attach the hose, switch the setting... blah blah blah. I think I just won't bother out of fear of breaking something. (That little door that is supposed to pull up and fold down 90 degrees will not fold down when I try it and I'm not about to force it).On our 2nd day of use, its working just fine, but the # of parts and amount of attention to detail to use it means really paying attention and for some, makes it complicated. More moving parts means more than can break down, and it fills me with trepidation about this machine. It would be nice if this machine was more 'idiot proof', but not everything in life can be as easy as microwaving a burrito I guess. We'll see how it fares in the long-term. And while it seems to do a good job of cleaning, I am also somewhat misled by the name of the device 'SteamVac'... why is it called 'SteamVac' when there's no steam?


