1348876800
5.0
review/summary: Three-cup-size is plenty big enoughreview/text: I debated for three weeks whether to purchase a three-cup or a four-cup mini processor. I guess I call it a chopper/grinder. Was the three-cup going to be large enough to hold the amounts used for a normal recipe (for 4-6 servings)? Was the four-cup too large for convenience? I settled on the three-cup and I'm writing this review to say that I made the right decision. There are a lot of reviews here, and while I debated this issue of three- versus four-cup I read many of them. What? Nobody else seemed to have the same debate going? So, I guess, I'm adding a new thought here that someone else might find useful. I don't usually post a review for items that already have hundreds listed.While doing my research several people warned me, "Careful! Three cups is pretty small". Well, yeah, it is--especially if you are comparing it to a full-size processor. This machine is not meant to be used as a regular-sized processor. Try to use it for a "full-size" job and no doubt you will be disappointed!I wanted a little processor to prep small jobs. It needed to be handy enough so that I would actually use it. I had gotten into the habit of standing at my cutting board and debating if it would be quicker to get out the big processor or do the chopping job by hand. "By hand" was winning out, because when I added up the time it takes to pull the machine into a position where it could be used, finish aligning the parts and adding the blade, do the chopping, then finding room in the dishwasher to clean the bulky parts, well, it just wasn't worth the effort. It had actually become "extra" effort.I already have the largest Elite processor that Cuisinart makes. I also have an 11-cup Premier that I prefer over the Elite.So, here's why I did good by choosing the three-cup in the Premier style:--It is so convenient. The curved shape of the Premier is the shape of this little processor. It makes for a smaller footprint; it is easy to pick up with one hand, and moves around the kitchen easily. The curved shape of the Premier is less bulky and easier to pick up with one hand than the square shape of the Elite style.--It works quickly and effortlessly. Two pulses in one direction and one or two in the other direction gets most of the jobs done. It opens quickly and dumps easily, making it simple to change ingredients or do another batch quickly. It's only got three parts to clean, and they fit very efficiently in your dish washer.--It is a specialty processor--not meant for all jobs and never meant as a less expensive choice of a full-size processor. Think through what your chopping jobs really entail: Chopping an onion, carrot or pickles, chopping nuts for a batch of cookies, grating cheese for your pasta dinner, grinding livers for a small pate, making a salsa for your nachos--then this is the size you want. If you're shredding cheese for a 9 X 13 pan of mac and cheese, well then, get out your big processor. If you're grinding meat for burgers, get out your big processor. If you're grating potatoes for a big batch of potato pancakes, get out your big processor. If you're slicing cukes for pickles get out your mandolin.--The large choice of colors and its smallness makes it easy to leave out on your counter--just about anywhere. It's really easy on the eyes. I love that about it. It's an appliance that I can leave totally out in the open, in the most convenient spot, and not have it staring me in the face.--FYI--MAYO: You won't be able to make a mayonnaise in this little machine: There is no hole in the lid through which to pour your oil.--FYI--COLOR: I was looking for a pale yellow, kind of like L o' L unsalted butter. This is darker. It's not a bright yellow, but it's not a soft, light color either. It's got a bit of mustard yellow to it. Still, it's not bad looking in my kitchen that needs pale colors.


