1360281600
5.0
review/summary: Love, love, love it.review/text: How did I miss out on the whole stick blender thing for so long?? After a couple months of almost daily use I can't imagine how I used to do things without it.Motor Body - One button (press and hold, not toggle) for power, one button to release the blending shaft, and a reasonably long cord that I do sometimes have to be careful not to dangle in whatever I'm working on. Motor is strong and pretty quiet. (I did still accidentally wake my kids from a nap with it, but it is much quieter than any other blender or food processor I've used.) Motor gets slightly warm after extended use, but nothing worrisome. Light weight and easy to handle.Blending Shaft - Mates up to motor housing VERY well. I initially tried a friend's immersion blender (don't remember the brand) and had a pretty hard time getting the shaft lined up to where I could attach it to motor housing. No such problem with this one. Sharp blades, blending action sucks food up from the bottom and out through the slits in the sides which seems to circulate whatever I'm blending very well (unlike countertop blenders that sometimes create an air pocket around the blades and need scraped/stirred/etc.) I have been using it a lot lately to whip/froth eggs for omelettes. (Take 2 eggs + 2 egg whites + 1T of milk and blend, then lift/tilt the blender up to the point where it sucks up some air and it will aerate like crazy for some seriously fluffy omelettes!)Cleaning - Motor housing doesn't usually get dirty during use, but smooth surface should wipe up nicely. Blending shaft cleans VERY easily if cleaned right after use. I haven't let food harden on it, but I imagine it would be quite a bit harder to clean in that case, as the blending shaft itself doesn't come apart. (Getting around the guard to clean the top of the blades might be pretty tricky.)Beaker - The included beaker works very well in conjunction with the blender and has convenient measuring marks, though when I'm making smoothies I wish it was a bit larger.Blending Results - Handles soft foods and frozen fruit well, but does not blend fibrous foods nearly as finely as my vitamix. (Plain fruit smoothie = awesome and easy, throw in some kale in for a green fruit smoothie = blend longer and still feel like I have to chew my smoothie a bit.) Not a big problem for me, but if pureeing hard/fibrous foods is your primary use, you will find that this compares unfavorably to a high-speed, high-horsepower countertop blender like a vitamix or blendtech.Overall, I would recommend this in a heartbeat!


