1357171200
5.0
review/summary: New three-cup-size B40review/text: I like good coffee and have ground my own beans for many years. I got the Keurig Reusable coffee filter when I got my B40 machine and have compared using my own ground beans with the K-cups. I don't understand those who say the Keurig makes bad coffee-I find the K-cups quite good as long as I stick to the types I like, which are strong to extra strong brews. I'm busy right now enjoying the many types of coffees offered in K-cups by various companies, but I'll eventually settle down and use my own ground beans, for money savings as well as for not putting more plastic in landfills. (That's my decision, though; I really dislike being lectured about it in a product review by another whose pants are on fire about his or her pet cause.)I have the newest B40 with THREE cup sizes. By experimenting I have found I can fill a big travel cup to the top by running the machine two times in succession, using the extra strong K-cups or my own beans in the reusable filter, with good results. I've also played with making ice tea, and it works very well.I don't think my machine is loud at all, it doesn't vibrate, it heats soooo fast. I like the "water needs refilling light." It'll stop where it is and wait for you to add water, and it will not drip. (It never drips.) Once water is added it will start again and finish what it was doing, even if it was making a cup of coffee. I like the "auto-shut-off" option, too. Someone said these are dedicated machines for coffee lovers, or something along those lines. Quite so.For people who are just habitual coffee drinkers, don't care about the taste, won't spend money on something as mundane to them as coffee-don't buy one. It is different enough that it probably isn't for everyone. But that's about mindset, not the quality or functionality of the product, which I think is great!So if you want to change the way you enjoy coffee-meaning a FRESH BREWED cup every time, one that hasn't been poured from a pot sitting on a burner for hours, give this a try. Maybe you want a cup after dinner but don't want the caffeine. Brew up a single cup of decaf. Simple option with the Keurig!Finally, consider this--it's FASTER to make a cup of coffee with a Keurig than to make a cup of instant coffee by heating water in your microwave.That blew my mind.


