1350864000
5.0
review/summary: Lodge cast iron pizza pan is greatreview/text: Cast iron makes a great pizza pan that makes great pizza. After comparing a lot of different pizza pans I think this Lodge is one of the best. It comes with a great ready-to-use surface and the handles make it manageable (it is fairly big and heavy). I bought two of these (family of three) and am very happy with them. If you like this pan I recommend that you also pick up a Lodge 10 1/2" griddle and a Lodge 10 1/2" skillet. That combination covers a lot of cooking uses, is very affordable, is high quality, and will last a very long time. I use my Lodge pizza pans for pizza exclusively. The griddle for pancakes, chicken tortillas (corn) and quesadillas (wheat), and roasted potatoes, and the skillet for searing and baking steaks, cooking bacon and eggs, frying scallops, corn bread, etc.For pizza dough, depending on time and convenience I either make my own (I use a mixer, search youtube for many examples, 3 1/2 cups flour and 1 1/3 cups water makes two pizzas and feeds three with some left-overs) or pick up raw dough at a local pizzeria. After it is ready I stretch and shape it on a well-floured granite countertop then lay out the dough on a cold pan. Then I spread sauce, cheese, and sliced mushrooms or pepperoni, then pop it into a pre-heated oven (a little higher than the middle rack) at 400 degrees F for about 18-20 minutes, until the crust is golden brown. (A lower rack or pre-heated pan will yield the bottom to be crunchier). Five minutes before the first comes out of the oven I prepare the second so I can pop it in when the first comes out. Let it rest for 5-7 minutes when it comes out of the oven then slide it onto a wood cutting board to cut and serve from.BTW, I've gotten ride of all my teflon-type non-stick pans over the past 8 years. Once you get used to cooking on cast iron, and learn that this cookware is also non-stick, but it lasts forever*, you may never go look back also. *forever: as long as you don't subject it to thermal shock (e.g. a lot of cold water into a hot pan - which may cause it to crack), or put a cold pan on a burner turned on high (quick and un-even temperature changes may warp the pan, but as long as you pre-heat the pan up on low or medium heat for 4-5 minutes that will not happen.). You also have to learn about maintaining the pan to prevent it from rusting and to promote the non-stick surface development, but it only adds a minute or two of work when you use the pan - certainly worth it as your pans actually get better and better to use over the years as the seasoning matures.New to cast iron? Go to the Lodge website and read about how to care for and use it. 15 minutes invested there will make you an expert. Or ask your grandmother - her generation knew and appreciated quality and durability. The throw-away and replace society we all participate in today (e.g. modern non-stick surfaces) is wasteful and sometimes downright carcinogenic.PS - don't let my cast iron fanaticism above review scare you away from this pizza pan. This is the easiest one to take care of because dough has a little oil in it already. To take care of the pizza pan all you need to do is rinse with water (no soap because that eats away at the oils which help maintain the pan) when the pan is still warm, scrubbing with a sponge if needed, then dry it with a dish towl immediately and spread a very thin layer of olive or other oil on it and put it away for next time.


