1357862400
4.0
review/summary: Used with grape seed oil and could be better but works finereview/text: It is a month in and I have a pretty good idea of what this product is quality on a short term basis. If the product breaks I will update this as such events become present. As of right now the product does what it claims to do, but is n such a perfect way I would like. After placing the oil to the desired level according to instructions (which is about halfway) and pumping it a few dozen times it sprayed my food or pans on command the only issue is the way it sprays is not always consistent. I want it to mist on the items and sometimes it does, but some times without warning it goes from a mist to a direct stream spray. There seems to be no rhyme or reason for this change positioning the sprayer a certain direction or giving it more pumps seem to not make any changes to how it comes out. Sometimes it will switch between one type to the other which is kinda annoying when making something like oven fried chicken. The idea with these is to help cut down on oil and getting the most out of the least. Perhaps there is something I am missing but as of right now I just press down hoping a mist will come out instead of a heavy yet thin stream. I use this almost every night so I have had plenty of trial and error. I just still can't seem to figure out what makes the difference when it isn't right. This product has a better success rate than failure in this department, but I just wish it worked every time and not just most of the time. Of course the bottle it self seems fairly tough. Tough enough I have a feeling it should last awhile. The pump action is in the lid so I cross my fingers that the lid doesn't get lost or broken because without it the rest becomes useless. The lid does sit firm in its spot when stored so I don't see it falling off and breaking when not in use. But if you have young teenagers just cross your fingers they store it properly after every use or you might get an oil sprayer without the lid. I know the 14 year old me would have made my mother replace this at least once. Even with the best intentions I always seemed to break or lose key parts on items at that age. The pump on the bottle itself would make me feel more comfortable about it. I bought this product early dec 2012 and if this product has not received a broken update you can assume it is still going strong.


