1359331200
1.0
review/summary: Get your vacuum cleaner readyreview/text: I bought these sheets (king Italian Roast) a few weeks ago for a new king size mattress I had just purchased. The first couple nights were great. Sheets felt nice, the fitted sheet actually stayed in place despite the oversize cut for deep mattresses (mine is 11&#34; deep), and the pillowcases felt very good. Kept me warm on some cold Wisconsin nights.And then the pilling started, and it hasn't stopped since.After a few nights I noticed some little balls of fabric coming off the sheets. I gave them a wash and a dry to try and knock off the loose stuff. A day later I have even more coming off on me. Then I noticed it is actually spilling off the bed at the foot and onto my light colored carpeting, and subsequently getting dragged all over my apartment.I am now at a point where these little balls of fabric are EVERYWHERE. Covering my tan duvet cover and pillow shams. All over the floor and In between the sheets. Last night I took a deep breath through my nose and a little brown fabric ball went straight up. That was fun to try and spit back out at 2 in the morning. You know those little balls of &#34;sand&#34; that collect in the corner of your eyes? That will now be replaced with little balls of cheaply made fabric!I've been vacuuming the bed every couple days now to keep it down, which seems to help, but trying to vacuum a king size bed is NOT a fun task. I burn about 15 minutes every couple days just to keep ahead of these things. I'm about one more snortfull of fabric before I send these things to the trash. I will think twice about purchasing anything with the Pinzon name, in fact I probably just won't even bother if I have to risk this again.Admittedly, I am a roller in bed which could be aggravating the issue. 10 minutes without turning is a long time for me, which is why I chose what I thought would be sheets that could take the rolling without breaking down, like other sheet sets have done in the past. I have had cheaper sets which have lasted much, much longer.I am astounded that this is not a more common complaint in the reviews. Perhaps they changed the formula for their fabric recently. Maybe I got a factory reject. Who knows, but the sheets that I received are of awful quality. You could not pay me to recommend these sheets solely due to the mess they cause.


