1358208000
5.0
review/summary: Bruce Wayne would buy this coffee maker.review/text: We've had every type of coffee pot you can imagine from a 14 cup Mr. Coffee to a tiny little $5 thing that only works if you are standing in front of a two ring gas flame, smoking an unfiltered cigarette and blaspheming god in French. Too large, too small, too complicated, too much time to use - none of these coffee pots worked. It is no wonder that we have developed the horrible and expensive habit of buying lattes all the time.I bought this coffee maker for my husband because he read all the reviews and wanted to try it out. To be honest, I was pretty sure it was another gimmicky gadget - like the stupid coffee filter funnel thing that you put on top of your mug and pour water through. But he swore up and down that everyone loves the Aeropress and how it has been rumored to bring about world-peace. So I bought it.Now, I'm not going to say that this makes the best cup of coffee in the world because that was made for me by a really pissy guy at a bus station in Seville - but this coffee pot has three things going for it that put it on my list of the top five coffee makers of all time:1. It's easy to use. This coffee maker is made by Aerobie. You know what else Aerobie makes?Glow in the Dark Squidgie Disk. They also make theSuperdisc Ultraand something called aSKYLIGHTER. That's because, before Aerobie made this fabulous coffee maker, they made toys. They still make toys. Clearly, these people know how to make a product that a five-year-old can use - or my grandma; which is really saying something because she has trouble with flashlights. Aerobie also makes boomerangs, which is cool.2. It's super easy to clean up. The grounds even make those little pucks so you can pretend you're working at a real coffee shop. (Or not. You don't have to do that.)3. It makes great coffee. The Aeropress works the same way an espresso maker would, by forcing hot (not boiling) water through finely ground coffee beans. I probably don't need to tell you that this is *exactly* how Bruce Wayne likes his coffee made.In short, here aren't many kitchen gadgets out there that live up to the hype that this particular one does. If you use the Aeropress as per the easy to understand instructions, you will make a very decent cup of espresso style coffee and Batman will approve.


