1346198400
5.0
review/summary: more perfect than othersreview/text: My second Cuisinart thermal 12-cup coffeemaker just bit the bullet and I'm buying a third one. The good news is that the unit has fallen in price over the past years, so the prospect of buying a third one is less upsetting.Frustrated by overflowing coffee, I decided to see what other manufacturers are offering in thermal carafe coffeemakers in a price range up to $150. After reading hundreds of reviews, I'm sticking with the Cuisinart. My goal is a great cup of coffee in a relatively short amount of time. The machine takes about ten minutes from start to brewing the full pot. (My experience has been that it actually takes time for coffee to brew properly and that you should wait for the entire pot to brew.) The carafe works great, keeping the coffee hot for hours and warm for many more. I am 100% satisfied with my cup of coffee, although the machine itself is not perfect.The unit has three flaws. First off, if the lid is not screwed on properly, coffee, water and grounds will leak all over the place. After that happened once not long after I bought my first one, I learned to take a second to make sure the lid is on right and have not had this problem since.The second flaw has to do with the filter basket. I use standard paper cone filters, which can from time to time fold over a wee bit when you close the filter basket holder. This causes the filter to collapse once the basket starts to fill with water and it will cause water and grounds to spill out the same as with an improperly seated lid. It's harder to check this as after you close the filter basket door, you have to peek into the coffeemaker just above the filter basket to make sure the top of the filter is not folded over or bent inward in any way. I discovered that if you wet your thumb and then touch the top of the filter (facing the machine) to dampen it, it will stay upright. The problem is that if you forget a step or if an early-rising guest makes the coffee, you could end up with a messy puddle on your counter and floor instead of a delicious cuppa.The third flaw--and the real problem leading to replacement--is that the electronics are located on the front base of the machine. Sooner or later, all the overflowing will cause havoc with the clock, timer, or switches. In the four or five years I've used this model, I've experienced overflow problems about a dozen times, and I've now replaced it twice because of the location of the electronics. Cuisinart should move the controls to to the top or side of the unit and make the digital display larger for easier programming. (My biggest problem with the display is that it is very hard to tell if you have set the clock for AM or PM. Because you don't have to set the clock or the automatic timer very often, not a big deal. I like the loud beep because I can make the coffee and then continue getting ready for work while it brews. The second it's done, I know.)So why a five star rating? It makes a great brew. I am willing to deal with the flaws as it is apparent no other maker in this price range is both flawless and makes the perfect brew. Furthermore, I have learned in life that nothing is perfect, especially when it comes to small appliances.


