1354406400
5.0
review/summary: Chop onions so fine that your husband won't detect them!review/text: My husband and most of my children hate onions & green peppers, but most food is just plain BLAND without them! I can't imagine making spaghetti sauce or chili without onions & peppers! And with this sweet gadget, they don't even notice that it's there! In this case, "what they can't see won't hurt them", right?! ...Am I the only wife & mother that has to be that sneaky?!I've been using these Black & Decker EHC650 20speed food choppers (with 3 cup bowl) for at least 15 or more years. Ive been through two of them, & this will be my third. The first one cracked where the plastic holds onto the metal stick that the blade slips over, and the metal stick fell out. For awhile I was able to continue using it by simply slipping the metal stick back into place. But after awhile the plastic broke away and the stick wouldn't stay in place. The last one I had was still working fine, but the bottom section (the plastic chopping bowl) cracked and chipped around the bottom and the base wasn't sturdy. The blade became dull as well. Perhaps the life of my chopper would have extended longer if I hadn't washed the parts in the dishwasher. However, the motor (which I obviously didn't put through the dishwasher) is still running like a charm! That gives each of the two choppers I've owned a 7.5 year life, perhaps more.I also love this chopper because they're VERY easy to clean. One woman commented in her review about cleaning them because she can't submerse the top top of the chopper (the motor) in water. I would never 'submerse' the top either, but I have regularly cleaned the underside of the top by holding it under running water to rinse the food particles off, and then dry it off. It takes 5 seconds, literally! (unless you let the food dry on -- but I always clean them right away).Another reason I love this little gadget is for ADVANCE chopping purposes. When I bring the onions & peppers home from the store, I chop them all up at once so I don't have to chop them each time I cook. I love western omelets, but all the chopping discourages me from making them. However, if my onions & peppers are pre-chopped and ready to use, my food preparation time is quicker because I don't have to chop the ingredients!Here's my trick to extend the life of your chopped onions and peppers for at least one or two weeks;Chop them to the desired size. (I basically pulverize mine so my family won't discover them in their food) Strain most of the liquid off. Dump the chopped onions or peppers onto a few pieces of paper towels you've stacked up, and squeeze all the moisture you can out of them! Then, lay or wrap them in a clean dry folded paper towel and put them in a storage container & refrigerate them. The onions will stink up your refrigerator if you don't put them in a container that seals up tight -- glass wide mouth 8oz. or 16oz. canning jars work best if you use the metal screw on lids that go with them. The paper towels in the jar will absorb any moisture that accumulates AFTER the onions or peppers are refrigerated, and your chopped veggies will last 1-2 weeks sometimes longer! Otherwise, chopped onions & peppers will go soft and start to decompose in just a couple of days. It's the excess moisture that makes them go bad. Once in awhile I'll check on the onions & peppers and if the paper towel is wet inside the jar, I'll transfer them to a dry towel and put them back in the fridge. This extends their life once again and saves money too!Of course, these little choppers are good for all sorts of chopping besides onions & peppers! They're great for chopping nuts, turning soda crackers into crumbs for a meatloaf, turning cornflakes into crumbs for a casserole topping, turning graham crackers into crumbs for a pie crust, for making fresh salsa's, dressings, and pesto's too! The sky is the limit! I hope you'll love yours as much as I do mine. I couldn't live without it!


