1360886400
4.0
review/summary: Grinds coffee well, but cleaning is not so simple.review/text: I recently got into the French pressing method of coffee-making, and within 5 minutes of reading about it, I knew that continuing to use my blade grinder for this method was basically heresy (I am being somewhat facetious, but French press does rely on a more even grind than drip brewing).I picked up this Capresso grinder based on the general consensus that it was a good product, without being a major bank-breaker.Putting the thing together was pretty intuitive, and I quickly set about grinding up some coffee. I've used it several dozen times now, and I can say that when it comes to grinding coffee, this thing doesn't miss a beat. It's relatively quiet (far quieter than a blender, a little quieter than a blade grinder), produces a nice even grind in numerous degrees of coarseness (selected by rotating the bean hopper on the base), and makes for a good cup 'o joe.However, I do have a few gripes with the product. First off, a lot of grounds get trapped in the pathway that leads from the grinding chamber to the dispenser bin. I've found that tapping the side of the device before removing the bin helps this. Second, the bin is oddly shaped; the front is curved to match the shape of the grinder, but the rest of it is rectangular. This makes for difficulty pouring into something like a coffee press or a small filter basket, and some of the grounds inevitably spill outside (this sounds like a pathetic problem, but static causes some of the grounds to cling to the sides, so the way you have to pour inevitably causes some of them to be suspended over your counter, rather than the coffee maker/press pot).Finally, and this is my biggest gripe, the grinder is rather difficult to clean. The bean hopper, lid, dispenser bin, and the rubber gasket on the burr blade can all be dishwashed, so that is convenient (just be sure that they are completely dry before using...air drying works best, as again the odd contours of the dispenser bin and the bean hopper in particular make towel drying just short of impossible). However, the actual grinder base obviously cannot be immersed as it is electric. After just a few uses, the coffee oil began to build up on the plastic in the grinding chamber. Now, a small cleaning brush is nicely included with the grinder, which makes removing loose grounds fairly easy (just be sure to do this over a trash can!), but it won't remove the residual oil, which begins to get rancid and pungent. The center blade (which is fixed to the grinder) is attached with a Torx screw. Most people who do not work on cars are not going to have this type of bit, which is probably for the best, since removing that screw resulted in various springs and ball bearings spilling out. I was able to reassemble these after a marginally more effective cleaning with a damp cloth, but this is definitely not something for the non-mechanically inclined individual.In summary, the Capresso Infinity Burr Grinder is a nice, affordable grinder that does its intended job rather well. However, cleaning it ranges from tricky to impossible, so keep this in mind before buying. I will continue to use mine, but I may have to get rather creative to keep the coffee oil from building up in the grinding chamber.


