1347321600
5.0
review/summary: 50250-S & 50250-N are exactly the same!review/text: The model I purchased is Honeywell 50250-S. This is the newest model in this series and the HEPA FILTER DOES NEED TO BE REPLACED EVERY 3 TO 5 YEARS as recommended by on the manual.The previous model, 50250-N, which is now phased out, had a lifetime Hepa filter which can be vacuumed and reused over and over again.It is a little confusing when one reads reviews for the newest model because the best review talks about the 50250-N. A Customer Relations associate from Kaz, makers of Honeywell products, told me: "the 50250-S and 50250-N are the same exact product except for the box which specifies what model it is. We don't sell air purifiers that have a lifetime Hepa filter." He further clarified that both models need to have the Hepa filters replaced on average 3 years for best performance. So now that I know the above mentioned models are the same, Honeywell either realized that they can no longer sincerely claim to have an air purifier with a lifetime hepa filter that can still work just as good after vacuuming it OR they just want you to buy new filters every 3 years to make more $$$ out of their products.I personally believe that changing the filters after several years might be better but I think the consumer must eventually use their discretion depending on usage.It's only been 48 hours since I have used this product and there is a tremendous difference in the air quality of our room. My husband and I usually start our mornings sniffling and clearing our sinuses with a tissue. But on the first day, we both felt like our nasal passages were more clear and were able to breath better than we're used too.Our musty basement also smelled much better after only several hours of running the air purifier. It has also kept me from sneezing every half hour from pet dander which I am grateful for. This item is surprisingly lightweight and very easy to move from one room to another.I would have to wait to see how well this product holds up for me over the years but so far so good. I have never owned an air purifier so I have nothing to compare it too...but I wished I bought one a long time ago based on how significantly better it feels to not have a stuffy nose all the time.I also succumbed to signing up for the Amazon Visa Card $50 gift card bonus to get this product at about less than $100. It was a significant discount. Amazon does drive me crazy when they drop the price the next day...It must be a marketing scheme. It is what it is!


