1346803200
5.0
review/summary: A perfect cast-iron pan-- though it still needs extra seasoningreview/text: I bought this pan in both 12-inch and 15-inch versions, and they are both identical except for the obvious differences in size and weight. (The 12-inch can be lifted fairly comfortably by the handle even with food inside, while the 15-inch is really too heavy to do so safely and requires a double grip.) Some observations after having used both for a while follow. Short summary: this pan is an incredible value, but all cast iron pans, including this one, need a little TLC to be perfect.Pros:+ Rock-solid, dependable construction. There is a reason that Lodge Logic is the oldest North American manufacturer of these pans, and is still going strong. You would think that a lump of metal is just that, but these pans have excellent reliability ratings from users over time, though the occasional flaw, inescapable in manufacturing, may make the odd one break under heating or cooling the first time or two (note that care must be taken with cast iron to avoid cracking even at the best of times, though).+ Heavy enough construction ensures enough heat build-up for very even heat distribution, which is why one buys such a pan in the first place. Lighter pans might be easier on the wrists, but they're not as good for cooking.+ The cooking surface is flat, instead of ribbed in an attempt to create false grill lines on meat. Pans designed the other way claim to aid in drainage of juices and grease, but this is not a problem with a flat cast iron pan used correctly-- because one doesn't need to use any extra oil in cooking with a well-seasoned pan, as it becomes non-stick anyway.+ The double handle allows for a more secure grip when necessary, and the pan can be hung from either handle.+ The pour lip is functional and helpful at times.+ The pre-seasoning gives one a head start on making the pan non-stick (more on this below).Cons (omitting weight, as you really just have to live with this when you buy a decent cast iron pan):- Preseasoning is incomplete; food can easily stick unless one adds extra seasoning before the first use. The preseasoning seems mostly useful as a start on seasoning, and to avoid rust.By now you've read through multiple mentions of the pre-seasoning on this pan, and I will now proceed to bore you the rest of the way to death with further talk of seasoning. Seasoning can be thought of like polishing a shoe with wax: the aim is to fill in pores of a surface in order to make it smooth, in addition to coating all the exposed parts of the rough surface at a low level. When these pans arrive, the surface is very rough; you shouldn't expect it to be like a Teflon-coated cooking surface on a different type of pan. And as I found when grilling a steak for the first time to test the pre-seasoning, food may stick to the surface. If one is able to cook on this and get lucky with the food not sticking, say by using a fattier cut of meat, so much the better, but it would still be best to finish the seasoning job before starting.Some seasoning tips that I've found to work well:1. Don't use oil with any additives. For example, Pam labeled as "100% oil" on the front actually has some additives such as soy lecithin, presumably to aid in sprayability and easy coating; these additives may build up and cause, for want of a better term, "oil boogers" during seasoning. The purer the oil, the better.2. Put on a thin coat of oil each time you season the pan. Seasoning may take multiple passes before the first cooking use, but using a thick coat of oil is not a shortcut that should be taken; it will just cause a lot of greasy, eye-stinging smoke, smelling up the house and not providing a benefit as the extra oil will just burn off. In addition, a thick coat may cause oil to pool along the edge of the pan-- this will be hard to impossible to make harden, and you will eventually wind up wiping it off and leaving a long divot in your nice, nonstick surface.3. Provide as much ventilation as possible: range fan on high, windows open, etc. Even when using the correct amount of oil, you will be able to tell you're seasoning a pan.4. Use as high a heat as possible, and don't rush to get it over with as quickly as possible. I found that 500 degrees for an hour or more worked the best in getting rid of any lingering tackiness on the pan surface.5. Don't be afraid to wipe the pan down with water. Restaurants that use cast iron cookware have to use soap and water to meet sanitary code requirements-- and those requirements are in place for sound health reasons, including avoidance of cooking with rancid oil.6. On the other hand, don't feel compelled to scrub away at the pan under water either. Easy does it; the more you clean with a strong arm, the more you'll be scrubbing away of the non-stick surface you've labored to make. Balance is key.7. Add seasoning the pan every so often, to make sure the coating is unbroken. After it's completely broken in, you can do it less often.8. Don't forget to season the sides and bottom to avoid rust. However, note that the sides and bottom won't need as much oil as the cooking surface, since the sole aim is to avoid rust, not to fill in all the pores with non-stick coating. Do make sure to season the sides and bottom at least after every washing in water.


