1355788800
5.0
review/summary: I HAVE THE KEY TO SEASONING THIS REMARKABLE TOOLreview/text: There are tons of ways people can season cast iron but let me share something I've yet to find anywhere: use a cotton, BBQ basting mop for seasoning. After you season this enough, you're golden. I make everything I can in mine & bought many other Lodge pieces after this one.1. I initially washed mine with baking soda & warm water because I didn't think it'd hurt. It didn't. Don't use any petroleum based soap on this!!!2. After thoroughly towel drying your pan, heat it on the stove. Get it hot & dry but not too fast. Start @ medium low heat. Why preheat on the stove? Cast iron is porous so it makes more sense to get the pores open so you can clog'em with grease. That's your seasoning.3. After it's hot, apply whatever grease you like. Sunflower oil worked best for me. If you see smoke, take it off the burner.Instead of using X many paper towels & burning your fingers, rub the oil into the pan with the basting mop. You want a light coating of grease but not too greasy. Mop can be washed & reused; & you'll never burn your fingers.4. Bake @ 300 degrees until it's nearly dry then add another light coating of grease.I applied 6 coats of grease then stopped seasoning. After the pan cooled, I heated it on the stove, added a little butter, & hardly any egg stuck. Yes, making eggs is the best indicator because it's simple & cheap. If anything sticks, just scrape it clean, or boil water in it to remove anything stuck. After the pan dries, season again. DON'T WASH WITH SOAP!!!!You know the pan's seasoned nicely by the sound your metal spatula makes. Initially, it sounds loud & annoying. After a good seasoning, it's quieter & smoother. I use my skillet everyday & don't regret the purchase 1 bit. Not only does it work well on the stove, but it makes a mean deep dish pizza in the oven. Works great as a baking stone too. Made in USA, nice price, & requires a little persistence. After that, it's all easy. Some say to just cook bacon or hamburger in it for a while. Yes, you can do that, but my way is cheaper, faster, & cleaner. Although, cooking bacon does smell good.Like a good roux, patience, focus, & passion work well here. Good luck.


