1360454400
4.0
review/summary: Just like good old fashioned percale sheets.review/text: I have owned these sheets now for 15 months. I waited to post my review to have time to see how these sheets fared in the long run. Let's face it; you may like something for the first week you have it, but two months later, you can't get rid of it fast enough.I grew up with classic percale sheets. They lasted a long time, and they were a good value. Mine lasted long enough that I got quite the wake up call when they wore out 15 months ago. I read the reviews for the new sateen sheets; in addition to lamenting at the loss of percale, everyone was skeptical regarding how long sateen sheets would last. These sheets were on sale, and it seemed like a good place to start, so I bought in.When my sheets arrived, I opened up the package and washed them according to manufacturer instructions. I wasn't overcome by any smells when I opened the package, and when they came out of the dryer, they smelled like my fabric softener, so if there was a smell, it went away in one wash. The fitted sheet slipped right on my pillow top mattress, and there was an inch of fabric at the bottom where the elastic was that tucked right under the mattress the way it was supposed to be. I've had no problems with the edges pulling up, and no elastic entangled feet in the morning. The top sheet and pillow cases are generously sized as well. After 30 or so washings, there has been no shrinkage and no pilling. The set has seemed to fade a tiny bit, but the whole set is fading at the same rate, so there's no tye-dye effect. (Disclaimer: I suspect the fading may have to do with my husband &#34;helping&#34; and washing them in hot water.) I worried that the fitted sheet would wear out first, as that's where my old percale sheets wore out first; not so! 15 months later, they still look just as good.These sheets also feel just like the percale sheets. They have a bit of weight to them, but not too much. They seem to hold in a bit more heat than the percale sheets did, but not so much as to become uncomfortable. I think they are a little more crisp than percale sheets were too. While these sheets have softened a touch since I purchased them, they are still more crisp than soft.I have also learned that the only way with these sheets is to fold them right out of the dryer. If they wrinkle, just re-wash, because your arms will fall off before you get half the wrinkles out even using full steam (thus 4 stars instead of 5).Overall, these were a good buy; I definitely feel I have gotten my money's worth from them, and will get more value as time goes by.


