1360886400
2.0
review/summary: Doesn't make enough coffee!review/text: I am a lover of coffee, drinking it frequently and in high volumes. I should have counted myself out of the whole Keurig craze from the beginning, simply because "single serve" is not the way I like to drink coffee. But I felt impulsive one day and took the dive. I returned the machine the next day. Why did I initially think it might have been a good idea? Because it looked as though there was an option on the particular model I was buying to make a bigger serving of coffee that perhaps fit into a travel mug. Because when I had a late night and am going to have an early, long day, a travel mug full of coffee might be appropriate! Well, don't be fooled into thinking this Keurig's largest serving size fills the travel mug depicted on the button. It barely fills an American-sized coffee mug! I suppose it would overfill a tiny little one-cup coffee cup, but there aren't any of those in my house and there never will be! This machine is misleading as it makes you think there is a very large serving size. There's not. There's small, medium, and large. Which translates to a "small enough to be an espresso shot" size, a "fill a tiny coffee cup" size, and a "leave way to much room for cream and sugar in your mug" size. Terrible.I understand there are those of you who want a couple sips of coffee to really appreciate the flavor and get a bit of a zing out of your morning. If that's you, go ahead with this product. But I'm pretty sure a lot of people are like me in wanting a good, tall "cup" (should I just start saying jug??) of coffee when I get the hankerin'. Heck- why do you think they've been making 10 and 12-cup coffee pots for all these years? Because people want the ability to have a lot! All you have to do is decide what kind of coffee drinker you are and purchase your brewer accordingly. Maybe that means I'm not a REAL coffee fanatic because I want more than a few little sips. Kill me!Another thing I didn't like about the idea of Keurigs in general is how wasteful they are. Before you shake your head and call me a hippy, believe me when I say it's not even for environmental reasons (though I'm sure that's it's own huge argument)! It's just that one K-cup makes one [small] cup of coffee. Then you throw it away. That's wasteful of my money and I don't like that. It doesn't feel good to throw a whole little plastic cup full of quite a bit of coffee grounds straight into the trash for not even that much coffee. It killed me the couple times I did do it. The frequency at which I'd have to buy K-cups is ridiculous. That's not cool with me. I know there's a My K-cup option but screw it!The reason I didn't give this unit the lowest star rating is because it does actually make some delicious coffee! Now, I haven't been to Columbia or any place like that, but I think I know good taste. K-cup coffee's not bad. With a little cream and sugar I was a happy user. Until I ran out of stuff to sip and had to go waste an entire other K-cup.This system's not for me and you should really think about if it's right for you before jumping on the bandwagon!


