1357171200
2.0
review/summary: Weak and Expensive cup of coffeereview/text: When my old Mr. Coffee broke, I was excited about getting a k-cup brewer. The convenience of it sounded promising. But, after 2 weeks of using it, I found that it's simply not worth the hassle and I'm returning it. You don't get a lot of versatility out of brewing. The staggering cost and limited versatility of the unit makes it more of a status symbol than a coffee machine.Cup size:3 different sizes. 5.25oz, 7.25oz, and 9.25 oz. A standard cup of coffee is 8oz. The largest size here is 1.25 oz bigger than a small cup of coffee. I use 16oz travel mugs for work and this unit requires two brews. Plus, when you use the 9.25 oz brew size, it's noticeably weak. I'm not a java nut but if you like a strong cup of coffee, I could see 3 k-cups being required for a travel mug.Brew Strength: This is very much a personal preference but I find the larger size incredibly weak. You don't get a lot of wiggle room here. The amount of grounds in each cup is finite and so you are not able to tweak it at all. You can change the amount of water but that doesn't change how long it brews or how much grounds are in there. Automatic failure.Reusable K-cup: They don't have a good reliable "use your own grounds" k-cup method yet. There are several youtube videos showing how to gerry rig the reusable coffee filter so the water doesn't blow a hole in your coffee grounds and simply come out on the other side as water. I tried the method of using a used k-cup and cutting off the top so it sits underneath the filter forcing the water to stay in the grounds a little longer and it was noticeably better. Still though, you have to really monkey around with it and I was still not in love with the flavor.I kept hearing people telling me how amazing the coffee tastes and it's not better or worse than my old drip coffee maker.Much like buying an Apple device, people are justifying over spending on something simple and inflating it's value. I didn't not see the value in this at all.It is very convenient if you just want to have quick cup of coffee. You just have to leave the machine on so it keeps the water boiling all day. Not sure what kind of power that consumes.


