1359849600
5.0
review/summary: Best stock...review/text: I've been reading great things about pressure cookers, so I finally broke down and got this one based on the reviews here. I'm very impressed so far. Today I tried an experiment. I've been making vegetable stock every week using a slow cooker. I use a recipe (as opposed to just using vegetable scraps), so today I made the recipe twice: once in the slow cooker and once in this pressure cooker. The pressure cooker version took 15 minutes to come up to high pressure, 15 minutes to cook at high pressure, then it would have taken 15-20 minutes to come off pressure naturally, but I had to leave so I used the quick release. It couldn't have been easier, and the pressure cooker version was SO much better than the slow cooker version. I couldn't believe the difference. The slow cooker version could stand on its own and had a full (but not too assertive for a stock) flavor, while the slow cooker version is fine for adding to other recipes, but was much more anemic-tasting than the pressure cooker one.I was a little scared the first time I used it, and we watched it nervously, but now we're used to it, and it's no harder than using the slow cooker or the rice cooker. This one has a quality feel to it. I wanted an electric pressure cooker so I could just set it and walk away, and this one has lived up to the good reviews.2/15/2013: I've used this pressure cooker a number of times now, and it's just really wonderful. I've made black bean soup, white bean/tomato soup, Indian chickpeas/potato curry, mashed potatoes (cook the potatoes for a few minutes, then mash them in a bowl), plus cooked beans to freeze. It works exactly as advertised and is so much easier to use than I thought it would be. I do want to comment on cleaning the lid. I noticed after using it a few times that there was a noticeable odor left in the lid. It's not a bad odor (mine smelled like chili powder, which I use a lot) but obviously not desirable. Someone had mentioned here that the lid comes apart so you can clean it so I fooled around with it and here's how it works. After you take the lid off (and it's cooled), turn it upside down. The inner lid is a metal plate that seems to be held on by a center post surrounded by a plastic gasket. There's also a rubber gasket around the plate. To remove the plate, pull on the steel pin...not the center pin, but the more protruding pin that's sticking out between the center post and the outer edge. Pull firmly on that pin. For a second you'll think it's not going to give but keep pulling steadily and the inner lid will pop off. (You might want to take a moment to see how it all goes together to save yourself some head-scratching time at the end :->.) You can also remove the outer rubber gasket. You may see that the inner part of the lid still has condensation on it from your last use; mine still had it even though I hadn't used it since the previous evening. I scrubbed the metal plate and the metal inner part of the lid with liquid detergent and hot water, and the smell came off of them. The gaskets seems to be where the smell really resides. I took a few drops of dishwashing liquid and used it to run the outer gasket through my fingers, then rinsed in warm water. I scrubbed the center post gasket with my finger the same way. Most of the smell, but not all, came out. (I'm going to try soaking them tomorrow to see if that helps.) To reassemble the lid, put that outer gasket back on the metal plate, turn the metal plate so that the concave side is facing the bottom of the lid, center the plate over the center metal post and push down firmly. The center, with its gasket, will slide down onto the post and it will lock into place.This sounds like a lot of trouble but once you do it the first time, it's actually easy, and I have no qualms about saying that the pressure cooker is worth doing this! (Another tip: Apparently Indian cooks have used stovetop pressure cookers for decades, and in older models the cook judged the cooking time by the number of whistles the cooker emitted. So recipes from that time may say 'cook for 3 whistles.' I did some digging around and found that 1 whistle=about 3 minutes. I tried it and it worked for me, though I think it's best to use the lower end of the estimate. If the recipe says, for example, cook for 3 or 4 whistles, I'd cook it for 9 minutes.)


