1345161600
3.0
review/summary: Very Good Carpet Cleaner While it Workedreview/text: I purchased the Hoover SteamVac Carpet Cleaner with Clean Surge, F5914-900 from Amazon in February, 2012. Despite some reported customer frustrations regarding assembly, I had no trouble getting the machine fully assembled and properly running in about 45 minutes. The carpet cleaner performed mostly as advertised (but see below for a few exceptions) and in no time I was able to reconfigure the machine for the upholstery attachment to use on my stairs and other hard to reach areas. Overall, I was pleased with the machine's performance.My only initial complaints were that (a) after only a few uses, the rotary brush speed adjustment switch refused to stay in position, and tended to move to the highest setting no matter where I put it; and (b) the locking mechanism that is supposed to hold the machine in its upright position (e.g. when moving the machine in non-cleaning mode) would not always lock. Moreover, in July (six months after purchasing the machine) the rotary brushes failed to operate at all. I called the customer service number conveniently located on the machine and after explaining the problem I was told to cut off and return the power cord along with the machine specification label and return just these two items by parcel post for a free replacement. In fact, they only requested that I call them with the shipping confirmation and said they would ship out the replacement even prior to receipt of the package-which they did. Total cost to me about $10.00 to send the cord/label.My only disappointment about having to pay the postage was that originally I had bought the machine from Amazon with free shipping, so it really is going to end up costing me $10.00 more than I originally bargained for. Nevertheless, I could not have asked for better overall customer service. I have just received the replacement (but not yet unpacked it), so about one week in total for the complete exchange process.Overall, despite the shortcomings noted above, I would recommend this carpet cleaner-a reasonable value for the price. My 3-star rating is based solely on the operating problems noted above, and not the failure that caused the return of the product. My recommendation, of course, assumes that the replacement machine will not exhibit the same problems as the original. Only time will tell.


