1359072000
5.0
review/summary: For A Sucking Good Time, Call...review/text: Okay, so the whole "This things sucks" joke is wearing thin, but I had to get the "suck" word in the title somehow. I bought this based on the overwhelming positive feedback on Amazon and here I am adding myself to the list of Eureka Fan-boys.I have an aging Hoover bagless upright, and although that covers a larger area, this thing gets more out of the carpet than the big boy. To be honest, this little thing might inspire me to look at the larger Eureka models to replace my Hoover. It's just a fantastic design, and all I can hope is that it holds up to the abuse I feel like throwing at it. Every time I see something dusty/dirty/hairy my thought is, "Oh, I can clean that right up!" My first order of business was to clean a cat-hair infused micro-fiber chair. It only needed one pass. Clean! Of course, I haven't used any of the current competition, but I can't see how any device this size can be more effective.Somehow, Eureka managed to balance size/weight/performance perfectly. One thing that made me hesitate buying this is, some of the competition use rubber on the spinning beater as opposed to the brush on this one. Theoretically, rubber will be more effective on pet hair. A spinning brush, like this one has, should be more versatile and work on many more surfaces. I paused because much of my "problem" is pet hair, but pulled the trigger anyway. Worry not my fence straddling, pet-owning head scratchers, this picks up all the pet hair you can throw at it. Well, maybe not if you throw the hair literally, but you get my drift.Lastly, let me make a point about its ergonomics. If Apple made handheld vacuums, it would be this (in aluminum of course). The clear collection bin comes off in a second and is very easy to clean. The single switch has three main positions and a spring-loaded position pulling it back to release the little bin. Positions from back to front are: Bin Release-Off-Vacuum-Vacuum with Spinning Beater-Brush. The hose comes off easily and the small hose attachment is easily stored in the back. The power cord wraps neatly around the back and clips right into place. Compact, cute, effective, and for under 40 smackers!Still deciding? Fuggedaboutit! Buy it and get on with your new and improved life.


