1350259200
5.0
review/summary: "The Giver" gives more than what a book shouldreview/text: The area of literature for young adults is spread thinly. It's the one area in publishing where there is never a glut of material in the slush pile. Perhaps this is the cause of so few classic brilliant books in this genre: Heidi, The Wonderful Wizard of Oz", "The Borrowers", A Wrinkle In Time" and "Things Unseen". The mark of excellent adolescent literature is that it is equally brilliant when read by a fifty year old; that the characters are well defined and sympathetic and that the theme of the book si clear and universal. Lois Lowry is famous now for her best seller "The Giver" and the final installment of this quadrilogy, "Son" is just released. To remind everyone of "the Giver" is most apt.The community in which our central character has grown up in is much like what Karl Marx envisioned in "The Communist Manifesto". Lowry calls it Sameness, not equality and like REAL communism, regardless of what appears on paper it's an impossible dream. With the Soviet Union it was about human greed and power. With the community where Jonas lives with his family unit it's about the lack of extreme feelings. In order to eliminate the pain and sadness they had to eliminate exuberance and love. The book reaches the halfway point and we learn that Jonas is to be the next "Receiver" for the community: the keeper of historic memories. And he is trained by an old man who is now called "The Giver." Jonas see's that there are some serious flaws in their way of life and he is forced to make a choice of massive consequence.The books is so well crafted, not a single word or moment is waste3d, whether it is a snow sled that later becomes highly critical or the ominous casual method of residents who must be released. The relationships that occur in the book shift as Jonas grows and receives more memories and suddenly he finds that what has been "real" his entire life is not at all true. What then is truth?To begin with, Lowry has found a brilliant way to try to teach our young that joy and pain are partners in life and that both carry lessons with them. So much literature, both adult and children, tries to teach this lesson, from Frost's "The Road Not Taken" to Camus' "The Stranger". The truth is that these books and poems (and films and theatre works and songs) are more effective for those who have already learned the lessons of life. And the only way to learn them is to live life. We cannot deny our youth the right to learn these lessons as we did.This is what the community from "The Giver" has denied the population the greatest meaning of life: that which is learned by life and not from a book.Depending upon your age and your place on life's journey, the book will provide you with many shocks and surprises. Certainly for the young the shocking moments will take their breath. Some may call it science fiction- after all, the first half of the book is reminiscent of the planet on which IT lives in Madeleine L'Engle's "a Wrinkle In Time" except the control is more subtle. Halfway through the book we shift to something that William Styron may have written, and the setting becomes nothing more than a backdrop for a very human story.This is a must read. And it is a must lend. This book is taught in many Middle Schools, having pushed "Huckleberry Finn" and "The Lottery" aside. As parents you must make sure you read the books your children are reading because you want to experience what they are experiencing; you want to be able to discuss the hard issues that they will bring up; you have to add to their reading lists so that "Huck Finn" and "The Lottery" remain on their reading list.And you must add to your own reading list. Start with "The Giver."


