1356134400
5.0
review/summary: I'm ready for a non-plastic luxury model! Please!!review/text: The AeroPress is just the way I make my coffee. I have other coffee gear, some far more expensive, and it just sits in a cupboard somewhere.First, some lessons learned from my extensive experimentation with all the different elements of coffee brewing, some of which have not been mentioned in other reviews:1. I prefer a longer-than-usual steep, sort of like French-press times: about 180 seconds. In this time, a good amount coffee will be pulled through the filter by gravity. To minimize this, I steep the coffee with the plunger slightly in. This way, if the coffee wants to escape out the bottom, it creates a vacuum at the top, and nature abhors a vacuum.2. The exterior diameter of the AeroPress matches the interior diameter of an insulating beer cozie, which is useful. I cut out the bottom and slipped it over my AeroPress so that the coffee doesn't lose heat while steeping.3. I have no trouble with just rinsing and reusing filters. It just seems easier. Sometimes I double them up: An old one that touches the coffee, and a newer one on the outside. Two filters means you have to press harder, but I can do it. You also get less dripping while steeping.4. For some reason, I get better flavor results when I press the plunger immediately after a vigorous stirring. It's less good when I let the grounds settle and then press. This might just be my imagination.Though I love my AeroPress, I think it has one serious flaw: It's all plastic. I don't really notice a foul flavor in my coffee, but I don't like to think about the fact that boiling water is leeching out all kinds of endocrine-disrupting crap into my daily cups. It's a thought that makes every morning a little less pleasant than it needs to be. I would happily pay $60 for a borosilicate glass AeroPress with a steel filter saucer and a glass or steel stirring rod. The plunger could stay the same, since it doesn't really touch the coffee, but if it were steel with two silicone o-rings on the outside, that would be even better. Sure, the glass brewing chamber would need to have a plastic sheath on the outside so that the glass doesn't grind against the lip of my coffee mug, and also to make it cooler to the touch, but that would also provide much-needed insulation and shatter-protection. The important thing is that the coffee wouldn't ever touch anything that's not either glass or stainless steel. If you do this, please don't stick in a silicone sealing ring or something silly like that. I don't want any material that will hold a flavor/odor to touch my coffee.And let's face it, the plastic of the AeroPress does gradually acquire a flavor and odor. It's not tragic, but it's a compromise that I don't feel like making every morning! So please, let me upgrade to a luxury glass/steel model!


