1357689600
5.0
review/summary: I love it's dependability. I've had it 5 years now.review/text: I researched all the models and brands before buying, I saw the plastic gear housing issue and bought a model with the updated metal housing. I have a large family and depend on it every day. I have done small amounts and large amounts with ease. I recently took it apart to re-grease and inspect the housing and all the gears after it being a bit clunky sounding and found not one gear marred or nicked or a crack in the housing. Even the gasket was in perfect shape.I cleaned and re-greased it myself since it is out of warranty anyway. It was easy after watching this video [...]The video is thorough and makes it easy to repair,grease it, or just see how it works.I have had it 5 years now and the only issue I ever had was with a 6 qt. bowl full of potatoes to mash. It shut off from the steam overheating it, so I read it could happen in the booklet and waited and it restarted fine.The dough hook is great and whips up pizza dough for us in about 2 minutes.The whip attachment froths up eggs without adding anything to it, I can have stiff peaks quickly. It does cream so fast that it can turn to butter quickly so watch it closely.I have several attachments also and love the slicer/shredder the most. I buy cheese in blocks and have it shredded in under a minute. I love doing potato chips and au gratin potatoes with the slicer too (no more sliced knuckles from the hand slicers).As long as you clean or soak the attachments right away they clean up easy.I didn't like the grinder, it did a poor job and was slowwwwww. I got rid of that.I am happy with my purchase and enjoy the ease of use of this machine.I like the lifter, instead of the hinge and even though the hooks weren't stainless steel, they have held up under pressure and a couple of broken spoons and spatulas! (Yes, I got lazy and didn't shut it off before scraping the sides). Trust me shut it off first and enjoy your creation instead of throwing out everything because of shards of plastic or wood in it.I look forward to many more years of use by doing some simple maintenance and common sense.


