1354924800
5.0
review/summary: Makes Great Popcorn, Few Old Maids, Little Oil Usereview/text: Pops fast with a little amount of oil.My husband choose this as a holiday gift at his work a few years ago from the group of $20 gifts. He knows how much I love popcorn. At first I was skeptical because it feels cheap and flimsy. We had been using a really old, large, very cheap, covered stock pot. It belonged to his grandmother and worked so well because it had thin walls and a thin floor. It was light and easy to shake and it would build up steam and heat quickly in the aluminum pot. But it wasn't designed for popcorn and the small handles would get scorching. The big plus side is that I could make an enormous amount of popcorn in it at once.This Wabash Valley Farms Whirley-Pop device has the same important features of thin metal that hold in steam for rapid heat production. The pot will not have to heat up like a heavier pot would. This popper allows the heat to go directly and quickly into the oil and get changed to steam, which can be the most effective for popping the most kernels. The whirley stirring feature is an added bonus that permits you to keep unpopped and partially popped kernels in contact with the highest heat sources (oil and steam) instead of getting trapped by the popped kernels. The ability for the lid to flip up is practical if you end up with a lot of popped corn so it has some place to go and make room for more kernels to get big and fluffy.Because this popper helps create and retain high heat, you do not need much oil and you do not need a super high heat setting once the oil gets warmed. As the popping begins, be ready as it will finish quickly. I usually use less than a tablespoon of vegatable oil, such as Wesson canola oil. It leaves almost no taste and this is very little oil for the amount of popcorn you can make. It will not look like it has coated the bottom the pot while it is cool. That is my only complaint - I wish it had a larger capacity.Once the popping is going strong, turn down the heat setting, and begin cranking the whirley handle. It will finish popping in about a minute or less. If you covered the bottom of the pot with good popcorn kernels, such as Orville white (my favorite), the sides of the lids should be poking up and it may be getting a little difficult to whirl because the pot is FULL of fluffy popcorn.Transfer your popcorn to a bowl for your desired seasoning. I think that seasoning/buttering your popcorn is best when it is warm and fresh (unless you are saving it to make popcorn balls). Clean up is easy. The lid flops around because of the whirley turner and is a bit awkward to clean, but simple. The pot is super straight-forward. All clean with soap and water and rinse out well.Here are some of my tips, as a popcorm lover and chef for your homemade popcorn enjoyment:**Salt popcorn BEFORE adding any butter or butter substitute. The salt will stick to any additional oils that are poured on the popcorn and tend to glop in places and some will taste super salty while others bland.**Whatever you do to the popcorn after it's popped, disperse it evening by shaking the popcorn and seasoning/butter together in a large covered container. It is like tossing a caesar salad.**If you like butter - use butter. There is no real substitute. Use small amounts and use the shake method after salting. Try pouring the melted butter down the sides of the container and add the popcorn and then shake. This way you avoid some kernels with a lot of butter and other without - unless you want that. It helps with even coating so you use less but achieve high flavor.**Try a unique salt blend such as a maple bbq salt rub that you would put on your ribs. Tossing your popcorn with a little goes a long way for a spicy, savory treat. Mesquite rubs are also yummy! Lawrys has several commercial options.**Drizzle the sides of your shaking container with small amounts of ice cream sundae caramel. Toss in your salted popcorn and shake away. This will coat your popcorn for a salty, lightly sweetened surprise. (you could try chocolate sauce too, but not too much)**If you like kettle corn, try mixing a bit of light corn syrup with sesame oil and toss with the popcorn in your shaking container. Then toss with a bit of sugar and salt to taste. You need the corn syrup and oil to help the sugar and salt stick, but use a light hand with all of these additions. It is supposed to be reminiscent of kettle corn without cooking it in a kettle.Here's to the fun of popping!!


