1357084800
5.0
review/summary: Fantastic so far!review/text: I'd so far dodged the Keurig fad up until this Christmas. I received this as a gift this year. I used to drink lots of coffee but with an ever busier schedule and a lack of participation in my workplace's coffee fund, I had reduced my consumption to one cup a day from a very old, single serve Black and Decker coffee maker that I keep in my office. The taste is acceptable at best, further reducing my coffee desire.On opening this gift, I initially was a bit skeptical, thinking it was just something else to buy a bunch of expensive coffee and accessories for. A week later...I've gleefully bought a bunch of expensive accessories and coffee, lol. The ease of use is fantastic and the taste of the coffee is phenomenally good. The selection of K cups is great in all the stores I shop. And I bought a refillable cup just in case I get tired of buying or can't find the prepackaged ones. I'm now even wondering if I should buy a Keurig mini for my office! I tried the Italian roast sample included w/ my machine last night and it was incredibly good. But all the coffees are.For those of you pondering why your coffee doesn't taste good...try a Keurig. I've pondered: is it the sweetener, the water, the brand of coffee, etc that made me dislike my home brewed coffee. It's gotta be the machine! I can take my same coffee that makes a mediocre cup from my well-maintained Mr Coffee and whip out a fantastic cup in a refillable K-cup in my Keurig.I realize this machine has some mixed reviews due to quality issues. Well, mine was a gift so if it goes out, I'll take advantage of that warranty and soldier on. If worse comes to worse, I wouldn't hesitate to buy another. I've only used filtered water and might add on the filter accessory at some point as extra insurance. But I'd like to get some clarification on it's effects on the machine's longevity first, as some on here have said it made the problem worse.I will say, if you are used to filling up a tall travel mug with strong coffee, you will probably need to brew two smaller cups. This model will only fill my moderately sized travel mugs 3/4 of the way, and of course the brew strength is less than that of a smaller cup, given it's dispensing it into more water. But I get just enough to get me through my hour-long commute. So it's not an issue for me. I will be sure to update with any troubles or concerns, should they arise.


