1353110400
1.0
review/summary: Reception in a metro area was horrible and the alert was NOT RELIABLE. Recommend the MIDLAND 120 instead.review/text: I highly recommend having a NOAA Weather Alert Radio in every home, business, office, school, daycare, church, gym, library, veterinarian office, doctor office, hospital, fitness center, restaurant, and anywhere else the public might gather. Simply, I have seen these devices *SAVE LIVES* by alerting the community to impending doom. Seriously. After 8 years deploying to major disasters, I can attest Weather Alert Radios save lives.However, avoid the Midland 300 such asMIDLAND WR300 Weather Radio! I bought one for my home and it simply was NOT RELIABLE! I have personally helped thousands of people program theMidland WR100 Weather Radioboth formerly as a FEMA disaster reservist in the field while helping people living in temporary FEMA disaster housing to ensure their Weather Alert radio was functioning properly and as a former Volunteer Manager of a local Emergency Management Agency while discussing the merits of weather radios as part of public safety events. There just isn't a better, more reliable unit than the Midland 100. Midland has since upgraded the 100 asMidland WR-120B All-Hazard Weather Alert Radio. My experience is the Midland 120 is the one to buy! The last letter on the WR120 just refers to the packaging it will arrive in - B for BOX and C for Clamshell ie clear plastic packaging.The SAME technology allows the user to program FIPS codes. In a nutshell this allows the device to only activate for a certain county or groups of counties. When I program FIPS codes into my unit at home I always program my county plus the adjacent county in each direction then one more county to my north, west and south. Better safe than sorry, it gives me an idea when to expect the storm and spare warning to prep my household.NOAA Weather Alert Radios make GREAT gifts - it truly is a way to help save lives while giving loved ones access to immediate weather information at the simple touch of a button.


