1361750400
1.0
review/summary: MY BAD . . . .review/text: I've been an avid juicer for years, and a year ago I decided it was time to update my old Omega masticating juicer - it was already a relic when my mother handed it down to me years ago. This juicer's good looks bedazzled me, and in a moment of insanity I bought it - what a mistake. This juicer is a behemoth, and the same green juice recipe I'd followed for years tasted nothing like it did from my old juicer - it wasn't as rich, it wasn't as green, it was waterier, and the yield from the same amount of veggies was significantly less. The most telling difference was how quickly it spoiled - just a few hours after making my green juice it was brown from oxidation, and it looked and tasted like pond scum. The other noticeable difference was amount of unprocessed produce left behind with the rest of the VERY WET pulp - what a waste. Yeah, I paid $100 more than this one to get another masticating machine, and it was worth every penny.Breville CONs=> Jets taking off at the airport make less noise than this behemoth.=> The yield is much smaller compared to a masticating juicer.=> Juice does not taste as good as masticated juice - not as rich - it's waterier.=> Its bedazzling looks don't last - after the first or second use, the once crystal-clear plastic on the juice collector and the lid of the pulp container gets cloudy. I washed everything by hand without using any abrasives.=> Pulp flies out of the spinning Nutridisk and sticks/collects on the lid of the pulp container because the pulp is SOOOOO wet (think spit-wad - if they're too dry, they don't stick).=> Shocking, truly shocking to see the amount of JUICE in the bottom of the pulp container.=> Shocking to see three-fourths of a plum tomato in the pulp container - shot there directly from the spinning Nutridisk running at its recommended slowest speed.=> Shocking to see whole spinach leaves and large pieces of kale and other leafy greens completely unprocessed in the pulp container, along with 1- and 2- and 3-inch chunks of apple, carrots and other unprocessed hard produce.=> Breville says to add produce while the juicer is running, but pulp and juice jettison out the feed chute when the plunger is removed and fly all over the place, including my upper cabinets which must be cleaned after each use.=> Juice/foam flies out of the vents in the lidded juice jug and makes a mess.=> The Nutridisk filter starts coming apart at the seams in just a couple months - warranty replacement is agonizing. The teeth in the spinner also dull quickly, so replacement after the warranty is up will set you back $32 a pop.=> Juice spoils quickly because oxygen is drawn into the liquid during the high-speed centrifugal extraction process. Juice starts to brown within hours of juicing; when this happens it starts to look and taste like pond scum. More oxidation = less nutrients/enzymes.Breville PROs=> If you're budget-minded and you drink your juice right away, you can save about $100 over a real juicer - one that makes juice that tastes better, has more retained enzymes and nutrients, and will remain that way for 24 hours in the refrigerator. (However, plan on losing the money you saved for wet and unprocessed fruits and veggies that end up in the pulp container, as well as the overall low yield.)=> You can save maybe three minutes processing vegetables a little less than needed with a masticating juicer.Don't let anyone tell you that making juice with a masticating juicer (especially the new vertical models) takes that much longer than a centrifugal type. Just because the motor runs slower (a good thing), doesn't mean that the whole process takes longer - it doesn't and I can vouch for it.


