1356307200
5.0
review/summary: Great Vacuumreview/text: I've owned Might Mite Canister Vacuums for the past 30 years. This vacuum is very inexpensive so I wasn't sure what to expect. Well it really "sucks", pun intended. I can't complain about the power of the product, it is fantastic. If I could just put the motor in my 30 year old case. The case is very cheap. The on/off button is built into the case and I don't believe it will stand the test of time. The flexible tubing is so cheap it bends and cuts off air flow and the connector to the canister is different from previous models (I own three) so I can't just change the hose. The combo brush tool is a joke, don't bother just buy another full sized brush and upholstery tool. I do like how they put the attachments on the case. The included crack and crevice tool is always handy and the floor brush feels durable and works very well.In summary:Pros: Great PowerFloor tool is sturdyTool storage built into case!The canister pulls nicely, nice big back wheelsThe cord length is acceptableThe bag size is very niceCons: The canister feels very cheap, almost fragile especially the on/off buttonThe plastic hose is terrible; I'm going to check with local vacuum shop for fitting to make my old hose work.The tube that connects the hose to attachment is very lightweight plastic. I just threw it away and use the metal telescoping tube from an older Mighty Mite.Summary: If you have an old canister vacuum you should be able to put together a very nice product. Just don't expect the out of the box product to last very long. Why four stars??? This vacuum really "sucks". I just finished cleaning out a very dusty and very large closet without even one sneeze.2/10/2013 EditI've been using this vacuum for well over a month now and I couldn't be more impressed. I've changed the star rating to a five because this thing performs so well. I have changed the plastic tubing with my metal telescoping and I use a better dusting brush, but everything else I have left the same. I just can't sing enough praises. All of the sand disapears out of the grout and it actually sucks down to the floor and carpeting. I used my upright on the one carpeted room with a new bag and a new belt on the brush. Then I put a new bag in the Mighty Mite and vacuumed again. I was shocked at the amount of dirt that the Might Mite picked up that was left behind with the upright (the upright is a commercial Eureka). I'm sold. Buy it you won't be sorry.


