1347926400
5.0
review/summary: Absolutely love it!review/text: Love this appliance. I have cooked numerous things in it (beans, stews, curries, short ribs, pot roast, chicken). EVERYTHING I've cooked in it has come out great! Short ribs took 55 minutes and came out fork tender falling off the bone with amazing flavor and texture. I was shocked because I am used to cooking them for HOURS and hours, but with the Cuisinart it's so much quicker and you get the same great tasting, tender results as if they were braised in the oven or on the stove top. Pot roast was the same... 85 minutes and terrific. What's really nice is that you can brown the meat (there is a brown setting) in the same pot which makes clean-up ridiculously easy. From what I've read about pressure cooking tough cuts of meat like short ribs and pot roast, it's important to let the pressure release naturally as opposed to quick release. Using quick release with tough cuts apparently toughens them up and using a natural release prevents that from happening. In any case, I have not experimented with the quick release for the tough cuts because I didn't want to ruin the meat just for the sake of an experiment.The appliance is very simple to use. There are no complicated menus to sift through. I have had it about 1 month and use it almost every other day, and have had zero problems with it. I love the fact that I can cook black beans from their dry state in 28 minutes and lentils in 8 minutes.For those who are looking for something that will make cooking quicker and more convenient, this is the product for you. I made an amazing vegetable/red lentil curry in 6 minutes and it came out perfect and full of flavor. I'm sure there are other pressure cookers that will give you the same great results, but I haven't used them so I can't compare. I can only give a review of the Cuisinart.... it has worked perfectly with no malfunctions and the prepared meals have come out great!If you're new to pressure cooking and new specifically to cooking with an electric pressure cooker, "Great Food Fast" by Bob Warden would be a great book to order (you can get it in e-book form as well). His recipes are specifically made for the new electric pressure cookers. He's got some very tasty recipes and looking through them will help guide you especially if you are not sure how long to cook certain foods.


