1348185600
2.0
review/summary: Not So Good...review/text: I ordered theOXO Good Grips Medium Cookie Scoopbased on the very large number of positive reviews. Although there are hundreds of positive reviews, the one review that rang true with my experience was the one titled, "my first cookie scoop ever".I had *exactly* the same disappointing experience described by that reviewer, with the exception that the spring didn't pop out and hit me in the forehead. The scoop did break while scooping my third cookie, however. The toothed, cog mechanism at the bottom of the handle, that rotates the scraper in the bowl of the scooper, completely dislodged. Once that cog mechanism dislodged, the handles spread open far enough for the spring to fall out.Although it's very easy to break the scoop, it's NOT an easy thing to fix. I spent over an hour trying to put the thing back together, to no avail. The toothed arm and the cog must be put back together *precisely* in order for the scoop's scraper to work properly. Lining up the cog and the toothed arm is frustrating because you have to keep the spring (which is not permanently attached) in place and it fights against you as you try to squeeze the cog pieces together. What a pain!I don't think this scoop is hefty enough to handle refrigerated cookie doughs. I think it might be less apt to break with softer cookie doughs, cupcake batters and things like meatballs, but a lot of cookie recipes suggest that the dough be refrigerated before baking. Refrigerating makes the dough too firm for this scoop's bowl scraper to handle. Because the dough is firmer, you have to squeeze the handles a little harder to get the scraper to move around the bowl and release the dough. In my case, this slight, extra pressure is what caused the cog pieces to dislodge.A cookie scoop that isn't hefty enough to handle a simple refrigerated oatmeal raisin cookie dough isn't useful enough to have in my kitchen. Two regular teaspoons work faster and more reliably than this cookie scoop.Fortunately, Amazon's return policy is *amazing* and I'm very satisfied with my prompt, full refund!


