1358208000
4.0
review/summary: Do you believe in love? And finely pur&eacute;ed soups? This might be for you.review/text: I'm just going to throw this it there: I've never used the Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick 200-Watt Immersion Hand Blender, in either Brushed Chrome or any other color. But I did buy it. Perhaps I should start at the beginning, prospective Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick buyer...Over three and a half years ago, had the fortunate opportunity to meet a girl that was as passionate and crazy about food and cooking as I was. Actually, she was probably more passionate. I just watched Food Network a lot and thought I was. We dated. She cooked for me, I occasionally cooked for and with her, and we ate food and loved it. She is a part time foodie, and this is an absolutely true story of our relationship.To make a lot of stuff that's really good (hummus, mostly), you need a food processor (I'm getting to the Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick, just hold on a second...) so one year I got her a food processor as a gift. Se loved it, or at least told me she did, and our relationship was strengthened by the addition of homemade hummus into our lives on occasion. We loved each other for other reasons, sure, but this is a review about a food item so I'm sticking to what's relevant.The gifts continued. She got me an industrial garlic press that I still use to this day. She also got me one of those mini Keurig mini coffee machines which is just absolutely awesome.But alas, some dark days arrived. Days without hummus or ripe avocados or even garlic to press (I've transitioned to metaphors, try to keep up, reader). I made a terrible mistake and let go of her. I was afraid and immature and as a result of my mistakes and shortsightedness, we broke up. I miss the fun we used to have, the food we used to make and share, and just her being around. Have you ever broken the heart of the person you love most in the world, prospective Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick buyer? It's worse than eating dried-out stuffed red peppers. Much worse.Time passed, and I couldn't help but tell this girl what a fool I was. I love her, prospective Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick buyer. I love her and I want her to know it and we're redeveloping a relationship of trust and I'm hopeful we will nice again be together and make hummus.We will also probably make pur&eacute;es and things that need to be immersion blended. Because for Christmas, I got her the Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick. She was attempting to make homemade tomato soup a few weeks prior (what a go-getter, right? Just one of the many reasons I love her) and had to take the soup OUT of the pot and blend it in a blender which, if you're considering buying an immersion blender, you know is no fun. She tragically splashed tomato soup on herself, but reports say she was wearing a red sweater so crisis averted.How does she like it? I honestly don't know. I don't know if she's even used it, in fact. But she sent me a picture with a thumbs up next to the box (which arrived on time and in great shape. Thanks, Amazon!) so I assume she is pleased with the presence of the Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick in her home. I sent her 9 recipes to make using an immersion blender, and if they turn out, I'll amend my review.Do you believe in love, prospective Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick buyer? Do you believe that people can change, that trust can be reassembled with time and honesty? And that food can be one of the greatest manifestations of shared love?I do.If you believe in love, consider the Cuisinart CSB-76BC SmartStick. I give it 4 stars.


