1354492800
4.0
review/summary: Very good, but buzzing noise and poorly designed containersreview/text: Edit January 07, 2012: After about a month the filter is filthy with mold. We tried to clean it, but that ruined the wicking action. We ended up purchasing replacementBestAir HW14 Honeywell Replacement Wick Filterfrom a different manufacture because the Honeywell are too expensive to consider. So far we are happy with the replacements and we will see what happens with them. If we knew of this, we likely wouldn't have purchased this as a new filter every 1-1/2 months adds up quickly.-------This is a very nice unit that we use to humidify our home, which is partially heated by a wood stove.Pros:- High capacity- Two containers to fill for manageability and constant operation- Turns on and off automatically- Wheels to allow it to move around- No heating coils to use electricity or get caked with mineral deposits- Good capacity. We typically have to fill just one of the two containers each day; rarely both. Perhaps this will be more when the weather gets colder.Cons:- It can be loud. Not the fan noise (which is present, but not obnoxious) but instead a buzzing sound from the plastic vibrating. We have to move it around or reset the water containers to make the buzz go away. When this happens it is far too loud.- The water containers are unstable upside-down. You fill them up upside-down, but the top isn't flat, so its either a bit of a balancing act to hold it upright as you fill it or a test of strength if you don't rest it on its top.- Medium and high are louder than we'd like. We have it in the living room (same room as the wood stove) and the higher settings would be more than noticeable. It isn't a big deal excite that this is called "QuietCare", so I am holding it to a higher standard of quiet.To think about- It does blow out colder air, so it prevents one from sitting on the floor and it can be cool to exposed feet.- The cord comes out of one side (not the back) and, by luck, not the side we want. So the cord points into the room from the unit, before the cord heads back to the outlet.- Make sure it isn't too big. It's pretty big!


