1344038400
1.0
review/summary: DO NOT BUY!review/text: First, I bought this product from a vendor at the NC State Fair, not from Amazon, but it is the same product. I saw a demo before purchase. I would have exchanged or returned it, but the vendor did not return the following year.First impressions, it is made of flimsy plastic. For as sharp as the blades are, assembly and disassembly isn't as easy as you'd hope. The blades are exposed, so it looks like it would be easy to hurt yourself.The demo I saw used a variety of vegetables, and it looked impressive. Using the product myself was another matter. It is a bit unwieldy. You feel the need to make sure others are not around you when assembly and disassembly so a sharp blade insert doesn't go flying because you had to use extra force to separate jammed parts.Large vegetable pieces work best. Trying to julienne baby carrots was almost more difficulty than it was worth. I tried to julienne an heirloom tomato. It did not work well. It became a mushy mess. The part that sits next to the holder does not get sliced, so either it gets wasted, or you have to break out a knife to finish the job. Like another review said, if you have to break out a knife, isn't that contrary to the point of this slicer? I've had some of the vegetable that I used break off from the chunk I'm gliding through the device and get stuck in the blades. Then you have to use a utensil to get it out or try to push through. Where the V-shaped blades converge, with the way the inserts fit in, there is a small "hole" where pieces can slip through, if not lose some uniformity in your cuts. I saw a demo that used a block of cheese, and the julienne slicer was used. I don't know if he used a harder or colder block of cheese, but I tried the same thing, and cheese got horribly stuck in the slicer, especially in the insert.There are no guides for the piece that holds the food, so if you get off-center, the blades will dig into the food holder. The food holder has small cone-shaped teeth to help hold, and 4 piercing metal prongs. On carrots, for example, the prongs will not pierce, and the teeth slip and mangle your food.Well, my initial thoughts about the flimsy plastic was correct. After a handful of uses spread out over a couple of months, cracks developed in the plastic all over. I have cracks on the main slicer and on the inserts.The blades appear to be stainless, as there has been no rusting there, but the underlying metal where the blades attach under the plastic is not, as the cracks that developed have rust in them.One last complaint is cleaning. The description says all you have to do is rinse it. That's all you have to do because that's the only easy thing to do. When I used cheese that one time, the slicer was a nightmare to clean, as simply rinsing won't merely do when you've got residue from the cheese all over everything.For regular slices, I would rather use a sharp knife than the V-slicer without the julienne inserts. Zero set-up, and you can just throw it in the dishwasher. For julienne slicing (the supposed bonus of this device for me), it is so frustrating and often doesn't work well. I personally wouldn't buy another one again.


