1348790400
5.0
review/summary: Life Changing Coffee Making Devicereview/text: Is it too much to say that the Aerobie AeroPress is a life changing coffee making device? I'd have to say no. Besides higher quality espresso machines, this is the best way to make coffee that I've ever found. Better than a properly made drip coffee. MUCH better than French Press. A properly made AeroPress coffee is packed with flavor, lacks bitterness, and has many qualities of well made espresso (albeit minus the fine crema that only a good machine and a properly pulled shot can deliver). You can make strong, short shots with more, finer grounds, or a weaker beverage with fewer and coarser. Personally, I like adding hot water for an Americano or hot milk for a strong and milky beverage.Pros:* Makes great, great coffee* Price. A bargain for the quality of coffee you can make.* Ease of use (once you've gotten the hang of it).* Easy to clean and turn-around.* Eliminates a *lot* of mess. To dump the used grounds you twist off the cap and push the plunger a bit to shoot out the used puck of coffee that's already had the liquid squeezed out of it. Compare this to cleaning up the sludge produced by a french press.* Unless you make a lot of shots, it will take you a long time to go through the filters. Some of the packages sold on Amazon come with extra filters. I've had mine for a year and am still on my first batch and I make 2-3 shots a day.* The AeroPress looks like the unholy marriage between a giant syringe and the only medically approved device to treat Male ED. Personally, I find this a big Pro. You might find this a Con. Whatever.Cons:* Takes practice. You are pushing the plunger on a vessel filled with scalding liquid and grounds.* Cheap materials. Aerobie needs to aim higher and make models out of really attractive materials. I know that their original products are world class frisbees, but a chrome and glass AeroPress would look really awesome.* Slower than worse ways to make coffee. This is no Mr. Coffee. You will have to put labor and preparation into your cup. No matter what the method, though, there will be a tradeoff between quality and time and labor.The minor cons are not enough to make me give this fewer than 5 stars.If you love coffee or you want to up the quality of your conventionally made coffee this is a no brainer.


