1357948800
2.0
review/summary: High output, but noisy, drafty, and expensive to buy and maintainreview/text: I've used a variety of humidifiers, ranging from different styles of whole house unit to the full spectrum of portable units from evaporative to ultrasonic and hot mist. In light of its positive ratings on Amazon, I decided to try the Honeywell HCM-6009 as an alternative to the pair of ultrasonic units I have been running to help humidify my ~3000 square foot house in the winter. I hoped the Honeywell would provide greater humidity, and possibly be more energy efficient and maintenance friendly than the ultrasonic units. Only one of these expectations was met in my experience with the unit, as you can see from the following scorecard of pluses and minuses.PlusesOUTPUT:On the highest of the 4 humidity settings, and the medium OR low fan setting, the unit puts out as much as 6 gallons of water per day, in line with my performance expectations and making it plausible that the unit could put out as much as the 9 gallons per day claimed by the manufacturer if the fan is run on high.Unfortunately, output was the only strong point we've found in using the unit-- and it has a surprising number of shortcomingsMinusesNOISE:while some reviews identified noise as a factor, others did not. I've got about a 20% hearing loss, and despite that would characterize the operating noise of this unit as comparable to or somewhat more than that of a 20" box fan at each speed of its three speed settings. It's definitely the loudest portable humidifier I've heard. The "high" setting was loud enough to prove distracting even at a distance of 30 feet, so I don't see how it could be used in an occupied room that didn't have a LOT of ambient noise. The "medium" setting wasn't as bad-- again, about what you'd expect from a 20" box fan at a comparable distance. The "low" setting unfortunately wasn't a viable alternative, since the lower rpm's of that setting seem to hit a resonant frequency, and the machine generated a buzz as internal parts of the housing began to vibrate. The total sound output on 'low' seemed comparable to that of the 'medium' speed, only part of it was now comprised of an annoying buzz.COLD CLAMMY DRAFT:Again, a few reviews touched on this point, but our experience has been that the unit generates a stream of cold clammy air that can be felt 10-12 feet away if you are in line with the ~200 degrees of arc in which the unit directs its air. This is the first portable humidifier of ANY type that I have not been able to simply set up in the midst of our kitchen or living room with no environmental impact on my family. With this unit, the draft chilled me in its initial location (where I've been able to successfully use all of our previous humidifiers), and when I placed it in other positions within our main living area, my family complained of the clammy breeze and began wearing jackets. The unit is currently situated in the foyer of our house-- the only inhabited space where it doesn't bother anyone with its chilly air flow, since we're either bundled up or just passing through.VARYING OUTPUT:I have been running the unit 24/7 in the two weeks I've have it, and have discovered that consumption of water varies uncontrollably. I fill the tanks and flip the filter twice a day (see below for why this is a NECESSITY), yet have found water consumption (and presumably, humidity output) can vary by as much as 1/3 between fill ups. Ironically, fan speed doesn't seem to affect this-- the unit has used as much water on the low speed as on medium.POOR FILTER LONGEVITY and BACTERIAL CONTAMINATION:I'd read other reviews that recommended flipping the filter periodically, but since I purchased the recommended #3BT 'bacteriostatic algae and order treatment' and had used it faithfully from the humidifier's first fill up, I viewed this as a maintenance step, rather than as an essential performance (and health!)-- issue. When I removed the housing after the first four day's use to see how the unit was holding up, I was appalled to see that the humidifier reservoir had a brown-- apparently organic-- sediment in it, and that the filter itself had acquired a brownish tinge along with the crusty mineral deposits from our hard municipal water that I'd expected to see. I was able to soak and clean the filter, and began flipping it with every tank fill, but it already looked worse than other evaporative filters I've been able to make last an entire Winter. As for the brown gunk, I've NEVER had any other evaporative humidifier develop such a problem-- and ironically, this is the first one where I've specifically treated the water to try to avoid it. (As indicated in my review of the #BT3 solution, I was able to solve this by applying the treatment at DOUBLE the recommended rate.)Bottom line:Despite its reasonable high output, its relatively high price, the non-trivial cost of consumable supplies (I'll likely to go through at least one filter and a whole bottle of water treatment per month, totaling at least 25% of the machine's purchase price), and our inability to use the humidifier in our customary living space because of it noise and uncomfortable output air quality made this a marginal performer for my household. Frankly, I think there are cheaper and more comfortable portable humidifier solutions on the market.


