1357257600
4.0
review/summary: I like it.... read my experimental test for heating speed!review/text: Ok, My Aroma Hot H2O electric water kettle just arrived. After ordering it I had second thoughts as I further read some of the reviews. In fact I concidered cancelling the order to purchase one of the more expensive and more highly recommended models.One of my first concerns was speed of delivering hot water. So I put it to the test. I prepared 3 containers of equal measure water. One went in a Calphalon 1 qt saucepan, one in a Corningware microwaveable pan, and one was in the Aroma Kettle. I used .9 L of water in each vessel. It was all measured from the Aroma Kettle. .9 L is the second mark on the water indicator window. All started with cold tap water at the same temp. I put the Calphalon pan on my GE fast start electric ceramic stove top, the Corningware in my 950 Watt GE Microwave, and the Aroma seated on its base. I stared all 3 units at the same time and turned on the timer from my Iphone. 4:42 minutes later, the Aroma was at a full boil and the unit shut off as designed. At 8:20 minutes the Calphalon on the stovetop came to a rapid boils. After 10 minutes I shut off my microwave as there was still no visible sign of boiling and I ran out of patience.The winner? The Aroma!Now addressing a few other negative posts about the Aroma. Yes, the Stainless Steel vessel, once the water is Boiling, is hot. Don't touch it. Duh! Even the instructions say don't touch it under these conditions, but is that really necessary?There is no plastic touching the water except some from the water indicator level. It's your call on whether this will substantially shorten your life or not. Everything else is all Stainless Steel. Will it hold up? Time will tell. I've had this for less than 2 hours now. So this is an "initial customer satisfaction" rating. The filter has some, but little plastic on it. It is a bit trick getting in and out, but I think I just have to get use to it. It probably could been designed for easier insertion and removal.I was unsure, based on reviews and advertising whether you could boil less than a full pot. However, the instructions do clarify and state that no less than 2 cups, and no more than 6 cups of water at a time. So you can boils a small amount. I actually wish it was a bit smaller vessel, as I probably will boil 2-3 cups 90 % of the time. But it will do the job for me.The on/off switch seems fine to me. Some reviews said it was cheap. It's a consumer, NOT a commercial product. If you want a heavier gauge switch, buy a commercial unit. If you have very little kinesthetic sensitivity (i.e., you can't distinguish between soft touch and hard touch, maybe you should but a commercial unit). I would say it is delicate. It looks like a guitar pick partially projection out under the handle. When the unit senses the boiling water, it trips the switch to off. You can manually trip it to the off position as well.If you have a large hand it may be hard to clean the inside, your hand will not fit in. You are just boiling water, so It's not like you are making soup or oatmeal. The instructions clearly state "for boiling water only". It suggests using distiller water, or an occasional cleaning with a water / vinegar soaking if deposits build up.The instructions are fine. A "quick start up" sheet, and then a more detailed 4 page manual. I'd give it 4.5 stars if decimals were permitted in the rating.OK UPDATE 1/11/2013. I have returned my unit. My reviews is still accurate, however it's just too large for me. At most I need 1-2 cups of water at a time, the bare minimum you can make in this unit. If you will regularly need 4-6 cups of hot water at a time this will be good. Just oversized for my needs.


