1356220800
5.0
review/summary: Works great!review/text: I actually got this product because I am the only coffee drinker in the house and never more than a cup or two. So this was great for the price. I received it before it's due date which is what I usually expect with great gratitude from from Amazon. I used it immediately and it works wonderfully. I read that some people had trouble with the drip and that it spilled. The placement is spot on so unless they keep the lid on there should be no problem with the fill. And the travel mug works out great too, it's like having a double cup of coffee without going back for a refill. It takes up no cabinet space which is a plus for me because my space is limited. So the big coffee pot is put away to be used for company only and this will remain out where I can reach it easily..the best part, it actually matches my stainless steel and black appliances. Great product for the single person on the go or a person just like me who enjoys an occasional single cup of coffee. I'm thinking of giving one to my son and daughter, both single who also need streamline appliances.It is not water tight. I left it soaking in soapy water then later heard the sloshing sound as I was placing it on the rack. I still maintain this is a great product and I've used it with other similar size cups without a problem, still no spills, the only draw back is the cup. So just rinse right away and there should be no problem. My son and daughter love theirs..would get an extra one just for a spare or a gift for a single person or as house warming giftJan 0,2013....well, I've had it for about 6 wks now and today I learned that the drip will not overflow when the top is placed on there, and this was by coincidence. I had prepared it for brewing last night and turned it on this morning...since it does shut down by itself, I left it for about five minutes and pulled it out and to my surprise the lid was on..I had to be sure I had filled the water reservior and placed the coffee grounds...I had and not a drop spilled. The water apparently went directly into the cup without a drop spilled. Don't know if this was fluke but I'm more than satisfied with this little brew station.


