1350172800
5.0
review/summary: Recommendedreview/text: I've always been curious about the highly-marketed, extremely expensive, memory foam mattresses, but not interested enough to invest so much money in them to find out. I noticed that a Consumer Reviews survey indicated that readers with such mattresses indicated the highest satisfaction and improvements in sleep. Of course, this could be because the users who buy such expensive stuff are fanatical followers and would swear by it even if the products were horrible, but I thought there was probably something to it. I then looked at all the foam mattress toppers on Amazon, giving highest weight to user reviews, and this one was among the highest rated. It also noted that it had some provision for cooling or temperature control (not powered, but some variety of venting or breathability), which I've heard many folks say is important, apparently from their unhappy experiences with other products. So, all the stars lined up: Consumer Reports, Amazon user reviews, product features, and of course price was reasonable, so I took a deep breath and ordered it. It works as advertised, very comfortable, nothing tricky or weird. I have some cricks and pains in some joints and this definitely helps, doesn't eliminate them but noticeably better, and just in general it's fairly firm but resilient and compliant, very nice.There is an odor to it for the first week or so, not horrible or disgusting but not pleasant, quite noticeable, and best described as something between new plastic and off-flavor mint, if you can imagine that. At the end of a week, it's almost totally gone and I think it will disappear completely very soon. I saw similar comments in the user reviews. Nice if they could pre-age the product and eliminate it but putting up with the odor for a week is not all that bad and worth the benefits. UPDATE AFTER ~3-WEEKS: Still some of the foam / stale toothpaste odor, not at all bad nor a deal-breaker but still there weakly, like if one fluffs the covers and blows some under-cover air out.Take your time opening the product, it comes compressed and tightly rolled up, so peel it open slowly and do not tear it. I had no issues but I can imagine someone pulling at it quickly and developing a tear.Bottom line: Recommended for a more comfortable sleep.


