1352678400
5.0
review/summary: Second Hoover Steam Vac - VERY PLEASEDreview/text: Purchased: 6 mos agoUsed for: Pet messes, muddy tracks, whole-house cleaning 2x/yr.Take it from someone who researches the daylights out of every product before buying, you shouldn't be disappointed with this machine. I purchased my first Spin Scrub almost ten years ago and when it finally bit the dust I was leery about what kind of quality I'd find in the new models. I was pleasantly surprised by the improvements.First of all, they fixed a MAJOR design flaw and the cause of my previous machine breaking down. On the old machine, the interior water supply hoses were the same material as the hose on the outside of the machine for manual use. Not heavy duty. So when the handle was lowered to remove the waste water bin, the water supply hoses became over extended and after several years they split. These hoses on the new model are much stronger. However, as a precaution, I still try to rest the handle on something (i.e. foot stool) so it doesn't extend all the way to the floor.Suction. I find it sucks more water out of the carpet than my old model did. And ANY machine is going to leave the carpet damp, but with this one, I'm not afraid to walk on it if I have to shampoo during the day instead of in the evening when I can let it dry overnight.One drawback is that the waste water bin has no pail, just two handles on the sides which means a two-handed operation to carry it back and forth to empty. Inconvenient but not a deal breaker.Tip: for small cleaning jobs, I fill a spray bottle with a mixture of cleaning solution and spray it directly over the area. I then fill the solution tank with just hot water. That way I don't have to worry about estimating how much solution to mix for a small area or about wasting any that's left in the machine.This is far less specific than I'd intended to be, but I wanted to add my positive two cents before too much time elapsed.Every purchase seems like a gamble these days, especially when everything is made in China and every batch can have its lemon. But based on my purchase I would recommend it for someone who wants a basic carpet shampooer. My refusal to rent a Rug Doctor and bring who knows how many other people's dirt into my home (so gross) made this a fairly easy decision and it will pay for itself vs. rental fees if you find yourself using it fairly often.


