1348272000
5.0
review/summary: Hard Working Appliance That Holds Up Wellreview/text: I chose this chopper because I have had very good luck with Black and Decker appliances in the past. (Matter of fact, my installed under-cabinet Black and Decker coffee maker is 18 years old and still going strong!)The second reason I chose this chopper is because the design and footprint is minimal for a 3 cup bowl. I live in a small motorhome, so space is at a premium. It can be stored in two sections, very handy and when out on the counter, doesn't hog space. The top lid which snaps on the bottom as a base, is very handy when storing it, you can put the lid on top so you can protect yourself from the SUPER SHARP blades.I have put my chopper through oodles of difficult tasks. I often cook dried garbanzo beans so I can make homemade hummus at a fraction of the store costs and without the chemical preservatives. I am able to place all the ingredients in the chopper then whir away until the hummus is nice and smooth. Even though one cup dried garbanzos cooked, means I have to mix it in three or four batches is no problem. In the end I combine all three-four batches in a bowl, give it a few stirs and the hummus is ready. Alternatively, I can make each batch differently for assorted flavors.I make my own breakfast cereals, so being able to grind up nuts in a flash is wonderful. It's also a wizard at chomping up chunks of dried herbs. I rip the herbs off the stem, then whir away. It doesn't chop the stems, so any I miss are easy to pick out of the chopped dried herbs.When you want a seriously minced onion, this does the job. You can have chopped onions in about four different sizes, depending on how much pulse chopping you do. On onions and veggies, it's best to pulse it on and off quickly for chopping. I often chop up an extra onion to store in the refrigerator in an airtight container, ready for my next recipe(s).It is also great for whipping up sandwich spreads from leftovers. Toss in all the ingredients, whir away and spread on bread.I have chopped raw carrots chunks in it, to make carrot coleslaw as well as to have minced carrots ready to toss in a fresh salad.It is also handy for small batches of liquids such as homemade dressings. You can throw in fresh herbs and peeled garlic along with the other ingredients to whip up a cup of fresh salad dressing.I loved to make cracked pepper dressing but couldn't find cracked pepper of the size I desired at the store. Hand cranking the pepper with a mill wasn't giving me the desired size and was wearing my wrist out. Finally I tossed in whole peppercorns, whirred and chopped at great noise, then tossed in the mayo and honey to finish the dressing with some more whirring. This cracked the pepper perfectly for the desired taste I wanted in the peppercorn dressing.I have also peeled a mango right over the chopper bowl, so it catches all the juices, then tossed in the chunks of mango. Once that is whirred away it makes a great tasty healthy sauce over chicken, fish, pork or drizzled over a fresh fruit salad.At some point my bowl was heavily stained and very hard to clean (I hand wash, no dishwasher) so I simply soaked in water with a tablespoon of bleach overnight and the bowl looked new again.It's very handy for making all sorts of exotic spreads and dips from leftovers. For instance, when I get down to the last half cup of beans or chili etc., I can toss it in the chopper with maybe something extra like a jalepeno or onion, then whir away until it is spreadable for a snack on crackers or toasted pita points. Fresh salsa can be made quickly, sometimes I do several batches to I have extra in the fridge.I could go on and on about the endless recipes I make right in the chopper besides using it to chop nuts and veggies for recipes.I hope Black and Decker keeps this in their line of appliances forever! I LOVE this chopper! If mine died tomorrow, I don't know how I would suffer through cooking until the next one arrived.


