1358640000
5.0
review/summary: Easy to Use, Fun to Brew, Tastes Delicious!review/text: After years of wishing for a Keurig, I was finally in the financial position to justify the cost. I decided on the Keurig B60 Special Edition due to the mid-range price of $145 at Best Buy. They had one for $190 and one for $99 but this Special Edition seemed to have every feature that I wanted and a very reasonable price.I've know had it for several months and I have to say, this is the single best coffee brewer I've ever owned. I have a multi-cup Mr. Coffee, a stove-top espresso maker, and an electric espresso maker. I put all of those other coffee brewers in the cabinets to collect dust once I bought this Keurig.Pros:1. Unlike traditional coffee makers, you leave the Keurig on so the water stays hot. If you turn it off it will take 10 mins to heat the water. Leaving it on means that you can have a fully brewed cup of coffee in less than a minute.2. The controls are not only very easy to use and interpret, but the blue light makes it aesthetically pleasant.3. By keeping the water reservoir full, I can use my Keurig twice a day for a few days without having to refill it. Of course, all of this depends on the size of each cup of coffee you brew and how often. If I used the largest cup twice a day the water would have to be refilled a lot more often.4. Having hot water on hand 24/7 means that I can use just the water for tea, soups, or instant noodles. It's very convenient.Cons:1. The K-cups can be very expensive but I recommend you either buy them on sale or buy the off-brand cups. Another workaround is to purchase a fairly cheap permanent K-cup and fill it with your own coffee blend. They sell them on here (Amazon) as well as on Keurig.com.That's really all the bad things I can say about this coffee maker.Friendly Tip: If you use a lot of K-cups but have limited flat-surface space in your kitchen, I highly recommend you buy a K-Cup holder that sits under your Keurig and has a pull out drawer. It is a metal grid that each K-Cup fits perfectly in each container so they don't all get jumbled around in there and it doesn't take up any more space in your kitchen since it sits under your Keurig. I love it! I think it can hold up to 24 K-Cups. I can't use that spinning K-Cup holder since I would have no place to put it in my kitchen but this drawer holder is perfect for me.


