1353542400
4.0
review/summary: Seems Well Made, but has a Required Safety Featurereview/text: This is my first food processor. And second or third Cuisinart item. Seems my Cuisinart items seem to be holding up better and used slightly better then my top-of-the-line Kitchen Aide items. Although I like the Kitchen Aide items for their looks. Still, based on passed experience, it's best to over-look how something looks and focus on it's usefulness!The DVD is helpful and provides 6 to 7 minutes of simple instructions. The remaining 43-47 minutes of video are recipes.You have to love two issues with the instructional DVD video:1) How all the sliced food just magically appears on a lovely plate, all beautifully sorted as if the food processor did it automatically in seconds.2) Shreds cheese extremely easy, but neglects to mention how much fun it is to clean everything afterwards.3) The video tends to focus on the blade and away from the safety feature required to activate the device. (I'm just mentioning this, as I dislike safety features and enjoy slicing my fingers. I'm not sure if this feature will bug me, but I usually end up disabling or breaking almost all safety features sooner or later.)Pros:1) You get a DVD instead of instruction book2) Seems sturdy and well made.3) While cleaning, the unit does have some nooks & crannies. Hopefully with most or all parts stainless steel, there won't be any corrosion issues.4) The bowl I found is really easy to clean. Matter of fact, if I'm only chopping vegetables, I can easily just rinse and dry the bowl parts on a rack. The plastic used seems super smooth condoning easy cleaning! However, I still find myself cussing at the dumb safety device -- Hey, I have 10 fingers, why let them all go to waste?Cons:1) In order for the safety device to activate, the chute & presser needs to be attached and inserted. This will limit the length of size of items you can place in the chute for slicing or shredding.2) The handle sits in front. I haven't put the unit through much use yet, I just found this odd versus most other kitchen units allowing the user to offset the handle to the left or right. Also, whomever designed or read the designs for food processors must been dyslexic as the base and lid tighten or lock counter clock-wise.3) Should have probably been shipped with a case for storing blade attachments.4) Against what people say on the Internet/Web, do not chop chocolate in a food processor or even try to just pulse it within a food processor! Either way, you end-up with a half melted mess and the blades only clog. Likely also, the blades will go dull faster, too. It is far easier and much faster to just chop chocolate with a serrated bread knife and wood cutting board. Cleanup is again, much easier and much much faster.Anyways, those shopping around might want to compare the other units based on the two, what I call cons, above. Whether they're really cons, I'll eventually find out within the next few months.2013.02.01 - I'm getting use to the food pusher and other oddities and am really enjoying this product. About the only items of slight annoyances are, the counter-clockwise tightening of the lid and the small food pusher. The only rational I can think of for the backwards tightening, is to force users to think twice for safety, but is causing most of us to now think four times. The safety mechanism is very smooth and can be disengaged quite fluidly by either completely removing and inserting the pusher or completely removing and closing the cover, all while the unit is still in the "On" mode. Another nice thing, any root vegetable (ie. raw carrots) can be easily finely shredded and/or then finely grated using the chopper -- attaining a very fine grind quickly & easily. Cream cheese frosting can also be quickly made, unlike the initial clunky blender method -- once creamed, a blender can easily be used.


