1351555200
4.0
review/summary: Works great!review/text: I have had my Keurig for two weeks and so far so good. I had purchased one a couple years ago and had so much trouble with it I returned it. My daughter has this one so I gave it a try again. One thing that is different is the ability to use the same k cup more than once. I always thought the coffee was too strong and it did not give me a full cup of coffee. Now I use the same k cup twice with the six ounce setting and I get a full cup of coffee and it isn't too strong. I don't remove my water carafe to fill it. I just fill it with a pitcher. I was worried about the water not pumping out and had read that not taking the carafe off would solve that problem. I only use filtered water and am putting in fresh water everyday so this has been working for me. If I'm not using it for a few days I will probably empty out the water. I don't think the K cups are too expensive for one coffee drinker so that has been working out well. The sample pack came in handy to determine what kind of coffee I like. The Green Mountain is my favorite. I also bought a drawer for my K cups and put my Keurig on top of that and everything is handy.Coffee Storage Drawer Holder 36 Keurig K-cup Pods by DecoBrosI have now had this for a month and a half and still like it. It still works great. I have learned not to use cheap k-cups. I thought my coffee maker was having problems when my cup didn't fill. When I took out the k-cup it was still full of water, so those k-cups went back to Target. I still don't fill from the tap. I leave the reservoir attached and fill it with a pitcher. I do every couple weeks empty and rinse. We drink enough coffee and tea each day to always have fresh water in it. I still like the k-cup drawer underneath except it has to stick out a little to clear the upper cabinet when clamping the k-cup. That bothers me a little because I like a cleaner line of vision and I don't like anything sticking out, but I keep telling myself "It's Okay"...I might have a little OCD. I am still keeping my 4 star review because I really haven't had it that long.


