1348704000
5.0
review/summary: Best alarm clock I have ever used!review/text: This clock is by far the best alarm clock I have ever used. It has the most user-friendly buttons and functions....everything on it just makes sense! You don't even need the directions, which is pretty amazing these days. I have purchased a total of four alarm clocks over the past year, and none of them are as nice as this one. (One of the units was so terrible to use I actually threw it in the trash because I could not figure out how to set the thing without using the directions; worst thing about that was that even with the directions it was not an easy thing to do.) I couldn't even bear to give it away because I don't dislike anyone that much!!It has two different knobs which you use to set the time--one for each alarm, so you never have to worry about accidentally changing one of the alarm settings just because you are changing the other one--and they just twist backward or forward to change the time. No more going all the way around the clock in order to get from AM to PM because you missed the time by a few minutes! Nope, this one just goes both directions! And you don't have to push a button a million times either! Just twist and hold and the time moves smoothly and effortlessly up or down. It is awesome!This clock also has a big snooze button which is super easy to push when you wake up all groggy and want those extra few minutes to sleep. My favorite feature is that when you do hit the snooze, it shows the number of minutes that you have set the snooze for (you can change it to the number you like, which is another feature I have never seen). I like this because I am always concerned after I hit the snooze button that I inadvertantly turned the alarm button to "off" which will result in my over sleeping, and then I lay there all restless and worried rather than relaxing or sleeping. Not with this one! It shows you the minutes for the snooze and it also shows which alarm of the two is set to snooze by the indicator light. The result is a secure feeling that the alarm clock will sound right on time, and I am able to fall into a deep sleep for that extra little bit of time!I like that it has a radio, too. It gets pretty good reception and I find it soothing to wake up to music rather than bells or sirens.


