1356220800
1.0
review/summary: Stopped working after two months with bad warranty and repair practicereview/text: I bought two iTouchless Trash Cans and one of them stopped working after two months the other one is going out slowly after four months. After contacting support they sent me these troubleshooting steps which I have already done before they even contacted me since they were available from other reviewers:1. Remove the thin protective film on the sensor area (if you have never done so).2. Turn off the power switch and remove the batteries or unplug AC adapter (do NOT use batteries & AC adapter at the same time).3. Wipe clean the sensor area with a slightly damp cloth and dry it immediately.4. Relocate the trashcan to an open area and the senor won't pick up any wrong signal. Make sure it's not underneath any counter top or right beside the window where the sunlight will reflect onto the sensor directly.5. Leave the unit without power source for 3 hours, then reload a new set of alkaline type batteries (or plug in the AC adapter) and turn the power back on.6. Suggest to try this procedure at least twice for best results.After you went through the troubleshooting steps you have to provide them with the below information again including a purchase receipt or order confirmation showing the place of purchase, order date, order number, and item purchased:Name:Phone:Shipping Address:Description of problem:Although I sent them the purchase order in my first message and attached the receipt in my reply they came back stating: "... the Amazon purchase order number doesn't show on your receipt which it's a required information for us to verify your purchase."After my purchase order was finally accepted I would have had to buy a box and pay for shipment and "send back the following items for your repair service:1) Lid cover only2) A check/money order of $9.95 for return shipping and handling fee within the continental U.S. (Pay to the order of "iTouchless"); $19.95 for Canada territory (in U.S. dollars)3) A print out copy of this warranty e-mail.Ship To:iTouchless Housewares & Products23497 Eichler StUnit AHayward, CA 94545US"After I pointed out that this is under warranty and that I won't pay for anything since it is under warranty they told me that this is a limited warranty which is "a general practice on the warranty offered by most of the companies."I thought back and I do not recall any company with that practice which I also pointed out to them. So I offered to drop the items off at their facility since they are right around the corner. Their reply: "...the repair center is not a public trade front office and they don't accept drop off service."I advise not to buy from this company since their warranty and repair practices are a hassle and not acceptable. I got the feeling that the customer does not come first and that they only care about selling as many of their faulty products.


