1355184000
1.0
review/summary: Should have known better!!review/text: I have been using these hotshots most of my life, mine still works great after almost 10 years, but I thought I really like the black color so I would try this one... Oh my god does this one suck... Not only is it very cheaply made compared to the older ones, you can tell just by picking it up, it is so light compared to the older ones. The reason that I give this one star is because I love the look and color of it, but it has nothing else. The first time I used it, I filled it to the brim and I know it says don't fill it all the way up, but I have a tendency to do things like I did before with the older model... Well I had a mess, the boiling water came out of the top and sides, and not just a little either... So the next time I thought I would listen, and not fill it up all the way so I left about 2 to 3 inches from the top, and guess what? It poured out over as well, so then I tried it a little farther down, and finally it didn't overflow, but when I measured the water that came out of it, it was between 12 and 13 ounces, and it says it holds 16 ounces, and yes I'm sorry this does tick me off as I have 16 ounce cups, and I want it filled to where it states it does, my older version I used to put the water in up to the white part, passed the heating part so that it was almost overflowing, and guess what? It never overflowed, not even once. I also don't like the button to turn it on. I really loved the side by side heat and dispense, it was so simple, and it also seemed like the older one heated up the water faster than this new one does. The heat and dispense buttons are very flimsy on this one, and I have a feeling that they will break in no time, it also drains the water a lot slower than the original. It looks good but other than that it is junk. I told my sister when I got this new one that I would give her my old one because she really wanted one, and she would take what she can get and be happy. So now I'm boxing up the brand new one and giving it to her, and I'm plugging my old one back in again, and maybe she will like the new one, because she never had one before to compare it to... So yea... I should have known better!


