1345420800
5.0
review/summary: Oxo Steel Can Openerreview/text: Oxo Steel Can OpenerThis is another kitchen essential and Oxo has made one that is very ergonomic, as it fits your hand very well. Stainless steel blades make it durable, and the large, soft turning knob is easy to manage. This can opener also features a built-in bottle cap opener, which is handy when you use sauces that have the older sealing cap on the bottle. What I was most impressed with is the large, smooth, plastic twist handle that fits nicely in the palm, this can opener operates with a minimum of effort. I always seem to have hands that are wet or damp making the flexible rubber fins aid in gripping of the handle while absorbing the tension necessary to keep the opener in place, while sharp, stainless-steel teeth bite into lids as a hot knife would make quick work of a stick of butter.Some of the features are:* Brushed stainless-steel handle has flexible rubber fins for comfort* Sharp stainless-steel teeth open cans easily* Large knob is easy to twist* Built-in bottle cap opener* Hand-washing is recommendedSturdy construction and a large twisting knob make this one of the best can openers on the market. I would recommend hand-washing, but this can opener has been in the dishwasher many times, to get any left over liquids or food particles off of the stainless steel. For this purpose I use a toothbrush with a spot of Dawn dish-soap, rinse and pat dry, to get anything that would get sticky off of the opener. When this opener is clean it works as brand new. Most manual can openers that I've used in the past have had a tendency to hang up or run off the lip of the can, but this can opener tracks very well. It stays on the lid without ever jumping off and has incredible ease of operation due to it's large mechanical advantage and handle construction. I am very pleased with this can opener. This product is manufactured in China according to the specifications of the US patent.An epicurean Bon Appetite


