1354838400
4.0
review/summary: Egyptian Cotton Showdown: Pinzon Hemstich Sateen 400 vs. Pinzon Pleated 400 vs. Malouf 600review/text: Internet research is at best ambiguous and inconsistent but I decided on Egyptian cotton. Also evidently thread count can be calculated in various ways and can be a limited if not useless criteria. All things considered I decided on Egyptian cotton. It is puzzling how EC sheets with identical descriptions are available at Amazon and certain other merchants for a relatively low price while elsewhere they can be several hundred dollars more.My first order was(1) Pinzon Hemstitch 400-Thread-Count Egyptian Cotton Sateen King Sheet Set; and (2) Malouf Fine Linens 600 Thread Count Queen GENUINE EGYPTIAN COTTON Single Ply Pillowcase Set. I hate wrinkles which I find are more prevalent in the higher thread count models - like Malouf. Between these two get the Pinzon; irrespective of other criteria, the Pinzon is much more wrinkle resistant; any difference in other characteristics is subsumed by this single advantage.One month later my second order was (3) Pinzon Pleated Hem 400-Thread-Count Egyptian Cotton King Sheet Set. This difference between this and (1) Pinzon Hemstitch Sateen is (a) the hem and (b)it is not Sateen. I do not how sateen is different except it supposedly has a luster. There may be some difference in the manufacturing process. Perhaps the difference is observable in high end sheets, but I cannot see much variation here. Get the Pleated Hem. This feature adds style and texture.As is stated elsewhere the sheets have some (not unpleasant) texture at first but after a few washings they are quite smooth. Scrupulous internet washing instructions- cold wash; low temp dry; then air dry to finish -have been observed.I am quite satisfied with both Pinzon sets. They are not particularly thick nor do they have the look and feel of luxury but they have more than satisfactory weight and substance. They seem strong and durable. There may be available bedding that is exquisitely "sumptuous, smooth, silky, creamy, luxuriant, heavenly. At one time I would have insisted on nothing less but at what cost and how to be sure unless they can be examined after several wash cycles? To conclude, you will be quite satisfied even pleased particularly in view of seemingly good quality at reasonable if not low price.


