1355529600
5.0
review/summary: Great Pot, but proper coffee grind and temprature is key....review/text: If you are just starting out or have had unsatisfactory results with your moka pot, these words of advice will save you a lot of time, money, and frustration:- use Starbucks #4 or #5 grind as a benchmark- do not heat the coffee over low heat.The Bialetti Moka Express is a great buy. It is one of those rare items that does what it is supposed to do, is inexpensive, and is stylish (the octagonal design is iconic). One of the major cooking magazines rated moka pots in their January 2012 issue, and the Bialetti came out on top, performing better than other brands of moka pots that cost 5 to 6 times more.A moka pot doesn't produce true espresso (it produces moka ), but the end result is "close enough" to an espresso that most people will be just as happy with a moka pot as they would an espresso machine (which costs hundreds to thousands of dollars).HOW TO MAKE MOKAThe challenge to getting good results from your moka pot is using the correct ingredient and method. There is a lot of misinformation out there - even from reputable sources. At one point I became so frustrated with inadequate results that I threw away my Bodum moka pot because I thought it was broken.Here's what has worked for me:COFFEEPurchase coffee that has been ground to the correct fine-ness (or grind it yourself). I will use Starbucks as an example since they are everywhere and I assume they use the same grind numbering system in all the US stores. Get a darker roast coffee from Starbucks and have them grind it using a setting of #4 or #5. Maybe get a quarter pound each grind to experiment and determine which results you prefer.An alternate, though more expensive, method is to purchase a tin of Illy MOKA ground coffee and use this grind as your benchmark for other coffees. Illy makes a few different kinds of coffee, so make sure it specifically states it is a Moka grind (I purchased a can through Amazon)TEMPERATUREThis is where I became really confused. Many magazines, and even the instructions that come with the moka pots, say to make your coffee over low heat. So I tried this and waited. And waited. And waited.... Nothing ever happened. Then I tried medium heat, which finally created a thin stream of percolation after 30 minutes, but the liquid stream was so slow and thin that it evaporated upon reaching the collection chamber.So here's what I do: I put cold water in the brewing chamber, place the filter funnel with the coffee on top of the brewing chamber and then screw the collection chamber on top to seal the two chambers together.Leaving the lid of the pot open, I place the moka pot on a cool burner (I have electric) and turn it on to medium-high heat. I let it run for 5 minutes. I then then crank the burner up to high, and very shortly afterwards, a steady stream of moka begins to percolate into the collection chamber. When the collection chamber is around 2/3rds full, I remove it from the heat source and let the residual heat finish the percolating process (I believe that leaving the pot on a high-heat burner until the last drop is extracted will burn the last ounce or so of coffee and probably damage your pot).Close the lid of the pot to retain the heat and you are good to go.Anyway, I am now very happy with the Moka Pot process and I hope you can benefit from my missteps.


