1352851200
5.0
review/summary: Good Value for the Pricereview/text: I already own an IQAir HealthPro Plus, but it isn't sufficient to cover my entire house. I wanted a smaller, less expensive machine for the bedroom and this one seems to be the ideal price point for a true Hepa filtration device. Installing the filters and setting up the machine is incredibly easy and took a minute. I do find the machine overall a bit heavy to move around the house. I can lift it and move it small distances, but I wouldn't try to take it to another room. However, I'm a hobbit-sized female (5' tall :P), so most normal people should be able to move it as needed.As for noise output - It can be rather loud, however I've been sleeping in with a fan in my room for years for white noise and I find that the medium speed is about the same output as the fan on medium. You can definitely talk and watch tv with it on the low setting, but you'd probably want to turn it off for a movie so it wouldn't be distracting. High is really loud, but great to set when you're not in the room and you really want to move some air around. I have not noticed any vibration whatsoever. Anyway I can get rid of the additional fan now, it's not needed.I completely cleaned and dusted my bedroom prior to placing the machine in there. Normally dust builds up really quickly in our house despite the IQAir in the living room and hepa filter in our a/c. Since I've gotten the Honeywell I've been running it nearly non-stop for a week. There is no dust build-up at all yet! And my allergies that had nearly reached asthma level have improved greatly (I'd say about 50% or more). When I open the door to the room it just smells fresh and clean; when I leave the room I can tell how much the rest of the house smells like cooking or other random scents. So, it seems to be doing a fabulous job of controlling odor too.Overall I'm really pleased with the machine. Perhaps moreso than the expensive IQAir I've got already. The purchase price of the Honeywell, along with its low cost of replacement filters makes it an excellent value for the money. You could buy about 5 of these machines for the price I paid for one IQAir machine. The only real con for some people would be the noise level, but I don't really have an issue with it. I'll probably get another for my office soon.


