1352246400
1.0
review/summary: More Chinese Junkreview/text: This is the second one of these bought within three years. The first one Costco warranted within their two year window.I was getting ready to trash this one and had even bought a replacement Mr Coffee from Costco ( stainless 12 cup programmable for $29 ) when a neighbor told me his Cuisinart had failed and they replaced it.I started some internet correspondence with the factory.Below is the final outcome after three back and forths and two weeks."Yeah right.I pay shipping to you. Probably $20.I pay you $10 for sending a rebuilt one back.Thanks for nothing.I bought a Mr Coffee that I have not opened yet thinking you might be a class outfit and do the right thing. This deal is a joke. How about I charge you $60 an hour for my time which would be two hours and $20 for gas to and from town?In summary..........Your pot goes in the dumpster, out comes Mr Coffee.I did buy a frying pan, by the way....a Presto.No more Cuisinart product for me.Thanks anyhow.> From: cservepop@conair.com> Subject: More Chinese Junk>>Valued Customer,>> Thank you for your inquiry. Based on the information you have provided, your unit is within the limited warranty period and can be set up for replacement. However, our warranty does not include shipping and processing fees. Based on your specific product, YOUR shipping and processing fees for us mailing out your new unit will be $10.00. We ask that YOU COVER the cost of shipping the defective unit to Cuisinart. We recommend that you use a traceable insured delivery service. Please reply with history to this email a Service Notification number will be created and an e-mail will be sent back to you with instruction on how to proceed on returning your defective unit."This pot failed like the other one..............just decided to do nothing except turn on the red brew light to show it was getting electricity.Maybe its time we all learned that the small appliance game has turned into a "throw it away program" after two year's of use.


