1345161600
4.0
review/summary: Works well, stores easily, looks o.k.review/text: This Cuisinart ICE-30BC replaces a old similar-type Hamilton-Beach freezer that has worked well for five-six years of frequent use before developing some fine cracks in its cover. The prospect that I might suddenly be unequipped to cope with an ice cream emergency sent me on to Amazon in search of a back-up unit, even a replacement. Good move!This Cuisinart ICE-30BC exceeds my good experience with the Hamilton-Beach. It freezes more quickly and slightly harder, yielding ice cream about the consistency of frozen custard right out of the freezer. I prefer harder ice cream, so I empty it into containers to store and freeze in my refrigerator. This Cuisinart generates firmer ice cream a little faster when I put a frozen cool-pack on its flat top while it's freezing. I also put a terry towel (or some insulating layer) over the cool-pack. This (I hope) keeps the cold inside and dampens the noise just a little. I use an ice cream recipe of my own devising which yields a very light, crystalline-texture ice cream when further frozen.Although this Cuisinart is noisier than it need be, its not unbearable. Just don't plan to chat with someone in the same room while its running.The cord-storage port underneath the power unit is a real plus, making this much neater to store. Its square footprint also works well for me -- it stores outside of, on the top of, a very high kitchen cabinet. It's not a piece of sculpture, but it looks o.k. The Cuisinart freezer-cylinder seems to take up less space in my refrigerator freezer in a plastic bag, along with its mixer insert.The mixer insert design seems to take relatively light stress and works well if you dump in extra stuff towards the end of the freeze period. It's easy to clean, too. The flat top surface allows me to sit a frozen cool-pack on it (which a rounded-top design does not.) The large hole in the top makes it easy to sample the ice cream as it is freezing and to add extra stuff into the ice cream as it freezes.This unit could be improved by noise-dampening and by a closer fit of the clear top to the base of the unit to provide a fit-and-finish more in keeping with its price and with the Cuisinart brand.This was an optional purchase for me but now I'm glad I got it. I expect it to last a long time and if it lasts reasonably long, will be worth its higher price. But for this price Cuisinart should accept the very small cost of adding noise-dampening to its mechanical compartment. Thus I'm only giving this four stars.


