1349913600
2.0
review/summary: Used this to trim side burns and side of my head with clipper however..review/text: I read the reviews prior to purchasing this mirror without caring too much for its lighting or its cheap plastic feel . I needed a tri-fold mirror to trim my side burns all around my ear and possibly back back of my head. I used this mirror so far for 4 days and I will rate it a 1-5 star rating based on:Look and Feel 2 starsThe mirror is bulky feels cheaply made as I expected it to be for the price I paid $29.97. It has a built in cord that you CAN'T wrap around it or hide when not in use. You will probably want to hide this mirror when not in use as I did.Mirror Angel options 2 starsThe Middle mirror is actually 2 in 1 mirror if you spin it around. The front side has regular mirror and as you spin it vertically, the back part has X5 magnification mirror. The side mirrors, unfortunately are not big enough to cover a full view of your entire face. The reason for this is because they are too close to each other. The whole entire mirror has a tilt lever that allows it to tilt back. The tilt level is not that great because it has a flat long plastic lever that dangles flat like a Popsicle stick when the mirror is not being tilted. The mirror also wobbles on an uneven surface when it is fully erected because there is nothing that will balance support it when it stands straight (Picture it as a hard cover book standing vertically.) It can easily be knocked down with the slightest push. This also knocked the review from 3 stars to 2 stars.Light bulbs and lighting 3 starsIt has four lighting effects DAY-OFFICE-EVENING-HOME. They change color as you slide to the desired location It is not a dimmer as I thought it would be. Its actually just a slightly tinted color panel that that slides over the light bulbs to give it a color lighting effect.The bulbs are permanent so you can't replace them once they burn out. I have only been using this mirror for 4 days so I don't know how long the bulbs will last.Overall its not a horrible mirror if want a hands free way to trim the side of your head with side trimmer or hair clipper. By hands free I mean, you don't have to hold a hand-held mirror with one hand to see one side of your face and since you need two hands to trim your sides, one hand to fold the ear down and the other to follow the trim path, a tri-fold mirror like this comes in handy but don't expect anything extra cool features other that the light bulbs and middle-back magnification mirror. It is up to you, the consumer, if $30 is all worth buying it.


