1360713600
1.0
review/summary: Porous enamel rusted -- Three defective potsreview/text: I purchased this pot (7.5 qt., blue) because it was a very good price (compared to Le Creuset) and it was made by a company with a good reputation for their cast iron cookware.I used it once for cooking and was very happy with the results. However, the day after cleaning I noticed rust spots on the black matte porcelain on the pot and lid rims. Upon closer inspection, it appeared that there were gaps or thin spots on this enamel. I had not even used the dishwasher, but it was clear that this was not dishwasher safe, as advertised, and that there was exposed cast iron (also not as advertized).I sent this pot back to Amazon for an exchange and very quickly (one day) got a replacement. Unfortunately, it, too, had the same problem with the black matte enamel being porous and rusting.As exchanging wasn't working, I thought that I would contact the manufacturer to see what they would do under their warranty. (As you can tell, I really wanted to make this relationship with the pot work). They quickly offered to send me a shipping label so that they could inspect the pot. This was good, because under the terms of their warranty, I would have to pay to ship the pot to them, which, because of the weight, would cost $20-$25. Eventually (almost 4 weeks) I got a replacement. But, this one also had the same porous enamel and rusting problem.I briefly gave some thought to treating it like a cast iron pan that needs seasoning, but there were rust stains that went down the inside of the pot from the edge and I knew that once moisture gets under the enamel, the pot will rust underneath, and that expanding rust will cause the otherwise-sound enamel to chip off. That might explain the complaints that other reviewers have had with unexpected and unwarranted chipping.Three strikes. This third pot got sent back to Amazon, this time for a refund. Relationship over.I don't know if the problem is only the Caribbean Blue 7.5 qt. Lodge Color Dutch Oven, or all of their enamel cookware. It is too bad, but Lodge Manufacturing needs to figure out how to correctly make porcelain enamel, or else stick to bare cast iron.2/15/13 Update: Amazon decided to charge a 20% "restocking fee" for the return of defective merchandise returned within their 30 day return window. Are they really planning to restock a rusty pot and sell it to someone else? Caveat Emptor.


