1359590400
5.0
review/summary: Despite an initial problem, I'm very pleased now.review/text: When the Mr. Coffee coffeemaker first arrived in December 2012, I had a MAJOR problem with it. The lid to the carafe sat low in the neck of the carafe and didn't make sufficient contact with the &#34;pause and serve&#34; plunger in the bottom of the filter basket. Consequently, the filter basket filled-up and overflowed because the brewed coffee couldn't drip into the carafe. One quick call to Customer Service and I was back in business. I was able to reach a Customer Service rep quickly and she listened as I described the problem. It was obvious that there was either a design problem or a manufacturing / quality control problem. Customer Service offered to send a replacement lid and a replacement filter basket to cover all contingencies (no charge for the replacement parts or for the shipping). They arrived in about 3 days. The new lid solved the problem and the coffeemaker has worked perfectly ever since. Kudos to Customer Service for their prompt and completely satisfying resolution to the problem.The coffeemaker makes a great carafe of coffee. Contrary to the &#34;4-Cup&#34; capacity, it makes 2 generous 10 oz cups worth (I've never seen a 5 oz cup before.) The coffee brews to about 172 degrees and the warmer plate stays hot enough to keep the 2nd cup hot too. The brewing cycle takes just under 6 minutes. I bought this coffeemaker to replace a 2-year old, 10-cup capacity Cuisinart &#34;Extreme Brew&#34; coffeemaker. It had a few more bells and whistles, but the coffee never brewed hot enough and the thermal carafe didn't seem to keep the coffee hot either. I usually microwaved my coffee to get it hot enough.The Mr. Coffee was a great buy for my everyday coffee use. The Customer Service folks did a great job too. I'm very happy with my purchase and I recommend it to anyone looking for a small coffeemaker (2 generous cups-worth), that doesn't take up much counter space, which has a few bells and whistles (delayed brew / programmable start time) and which cleans-up easly. Good luck.


