1361232000
5.0
review/summary: I love the smell of fresh baked bread early in the morning, it smells like victoryreview/text: Good tasty bread almost every day. I'm sure it's cheaper to buy bread at a grocery store but nothing beats the smell of fresh baked bread early in the morning. I'm getting hungry from writing this! With this bread maker, how good the bread tastes depends on your ingredients and not your skills.ProsWill do the mixing, rising and baking in one convenient package. (A win for lazy people like me!)Timer mode: place the ingredients in the bread maker before you sleep, and have bread ready when you wake upHas quick bread mode (pretty good results)Has quite a lot of modes for different kinds of bread.Even has a &#34;dough&#34;-only mode if you want to use it solely as a mixer.Can make other types of though like pizza or pastries, but you'll need to bake those in an oven (I haven't tried so can't comment if it turns out any good)The manual is actually a very good basic resource for what each ingredient does for a bread, and the differences in different types of flour.ConsYeast dispenser is loudCan bounce around while mixing, so a level surface is important.SuggestionsIf the machine were weighted to weight a lot more, making it bottom heavy, it would reduce or even completely eliminate the bouncing/bucking aspect of the mixing.The yeast dispenser probably needs a rubber stopper in the mechanism to stop it from making the popping clank noise.Needs instant bread mode, I can't wait for my bread! (Would be nice if this were possible)TipsPremixing the dry ingredients before placing them in the bread maker improves texture consistency, especially if you also premix the yeast into it (if you don't mind more fluffiness). You can still opt to have the yeast in the dispenser as per Panasonic's instructions.Other stuff to read, but I warn you, this isn't 60 shades of breadThe crust darkness settings depends on your ingredients a lot. With the recipe I use (a modified version of the basic milk bread recipe found in the manual), a &#34;Light&#34; setting always ends up like a &#34;Medium&#34; crust. But my mother who uses my bread maker, her breads tend to come out light if she uses &#34;Light&#34; or dark if she uses &#34;Dark&#34;.The biggest loaves will produce bread that's too tall to fit in a toaster... but that begs the question, if you bake a &#34;large&#34; loaf, how did the bread manage to survive that long that you would need the toaster? At my house, a fresh baked loaf has a shelf life of 15 minutes. Everyone swoops into the kitchen like pack of wolves and devours the bread.The manual is a good resource for recipes, there's even recipes for making the dough for various types of pastries and pizza dough. It does a very good job of explaining why salt and other ingredients are important for bread making.For those of you who liberally take advantage of the timer function (to have a hot loaf waiting for you in the morning or whenever). There are a few considerations you need to consider, especially if you have it set to run at 1-2am so you can have your bread ready at 6am. If you're a deep sleeper or can't hear anything from the kitchen from where you sleep, then you can skip this.The bread maker will move around, even bounce a little and making clunking noises, during the mixing phase once the ingredients form into a mass of dough. It helps a lot to place the bread maker on a permanent (like a fixed counter) and level surface. I sit the bread maker on a rubber mat on top of a stone counter, it dampens most of the sound issues except for one. The one noise that can be annoying will be the yeast dispenser, it makes a lot popping clack sound (for lack of a better term). You could drape a towel over the machine, but I'm not sure how much of a fire hazard that would be.Personally, the noise doesn't bother me because I have a separate kitchen and I leave the doors closed at night. A family friend who has an open kitchen/dining room/living room found the bread maker was enough to wake people up at night (they're also light sleepers). So they resorted to placing the bread maker in the pantry room if they wanted bread waiting for them in the morning.


