1346025600
5.0
review/summary: Extremely useful toolreview/text: I purchased this particular model specifically due to the great reviews and the large number of reviews. The amount of reviews provide a great database of useful tips, how tos, potential issues and solutions. I am reiterating some of the useful points that I picked up from other reviewers that helped me understand and use the product.1. Read the instructions before operating... like many have said, this is not your typical vacuum machine, it is a carpet cleaner that requires a different way of handling.2. Before using the SteamVac, make sure to clean your carpets with a regular vacuum machine.3. I used Oxyclean as the detergent (as suggested by others), this seemed to work really well for me.4. Use hot or near boiling water for best results. The vac itself does not heat the water.5. Be patient, the width of carpet covered by the vac is narrower than my regular vacuum, which means more strokes to cover the entire area. That along with the fact that you need to run the vac slowly over the length of carpet (to ensure thorough suction of the water from the carpet) makes this a long chore. The results are totally worth it.6. The vac is loud.7. Like another reviewer mentioned, the machine's sound changes when the tank is full... hard to miss. Nevertheless, keep an eye on it. I was able to vac one average sized room a time with a tank full.8. This vac is for carpets and rugs... do not use on other surfaces. I have a rug on my wood floor, I moved the rug over a carpeted area before cleaning to avoid moisture seepage through the rug onto the wood floor. Although I should add, I did not notice moisture seepage through the rug.9. I used this just after some renovation work was done to our house. Although the carpets were protected with plastic, some debris still ended up on the carpet (which I would have never realized if it werent for this vac). Also remember that I used a regular vacuum before using the steamvac... the regular vac didnt pick up the debris. I noticed the debris later in the dirty water tank.10. After using the vac, make sure to clean the tanks & dont forget the scrubbing brush. If you dont clean it, dirt will dry up on the bristles making it harder to clean later.11. I didnt have any problems with the unit. No issues during assembly, no leaking, nothing.Seems like a solid machine and with proper handling, should last us some time. Best part is, I dont stress out about my toddler spilling stuff on the carpet anymore :)Finally double thumbs up for Amazon, it had the best price and the prime membership came through for me. With one day shipping I was cleaning my carpets the next evening... a day before the movers brought the furniture in!


