1357171200
5.0
review/summary: Collects a lot of dust and hairreview/text: **If this review appears similar to another review, it's because I also purchased and reviewed the tower model (Honeywell HHT-090)**I purchased two of these units for two of the bedrooms in our house (one for each room). The one bedroom only has one litter box in it, but the other has two litter boxes and also has to deal with baby powder dust.Overall: Without the ionizer turned on, and running at medium speed the majority of the day and night, these units really make a difference in the air freshness. There is less noticeable odor (and yes, we do keep our litter boxes clean) and surfaces don't collect dust quite as fast. A person who is somewhat allergic to cats even noticed the difference, and doesn't sneeze or have a runny nose nearly as much when visiting our house. Given the small area of the bedrooms, the air tends to get &#34;musty&#34; during the winter with the windows and doors closed all the time, but these units really freshened things up.Noise: If you're looking for high performance *and* low noise, this is not for you. These units operate by running at least one (probably multiple though) fan, and the noise is thus equivalent to what you'd expect of fans. On high, the noise is quieter than a standard vacuum, but I wouldn't suggest trying to have a conversation or watch TV with it on that setting. Medium allows for TV watching and conversation, and low is barely noticeable. However, given that the units need to have air flowing through them in order to catch particles, they work best at medium or high settings. For sleeping, I recommend having them set to low, but after getting used to them constantly being on I find that I can tolerate the high setting better now.Air Circulation: These units circulate a lot of air on medium and high speeds, so that is something to keep in mind. They also have to be 3 feet away from walls or furnishings as per the instructions. I personally found this rather difficult in my small bedroom, but it seems to be working fine placed on a dresser with 3' clearance to the ceiling, the back being nearly flush to the wall, and the front pointing towards the room unobstructed. If you wouldn't want a fan blowing on you, then make sure to place this where it won't bother you. The plus side with these models is that the fans blow the air upwards, so it's pretty easy to not be bothered by it. In winter, these units make rooms noticeably cooler.Dust Collection: I have had these units running for just shy of a month as of this writing, and already I notice that their pre-filters are nearly completely white with dust. As a warning to those with dusty houses, I would highly advise that you clean your filters far more often than the 6 months that is suggested by the instruction manual.Ionizer: The jury is still out as far as the ionizer goes. When it is turned on I don't really notice a difference in filter quality. I read up on it, and supposedly it causes airborne particles to fall to the floor in front of the unit. Also according to the instruction manual, this process can potentially stain light-colored carpets. We have light-colored carpets, and we didn't notice any immediate staining after having the ionizer on for about a week, but just in case we leave it turned off for the most part.


