1360972800
4.0
review/summary: I Got What I Paid Forreview/text: After getting an estimate on how much it would cost to have a &#34;professional&#34; clean our sofa & love seat I decided to do it myself, so purchased this cleaner. I chose this Hoover based on the many Amazon reviews I read, price, and reputation of the maker.It arrived on time, packaging was great (thanks Amazon!) and the cleaner was in brand new-never used condition, just what I ordered. I was a bit concerned about how hard it would be to assemble after reading that some people had a hard time with this. I am not the greatest at putting things together myself, and I agree--the instruction book IS somewhat confusing. (not to mention the tiny type, which makes it very difficult to read)What I did, and I suggest this to everyone, is to look at the video instructions on YouTube. They are great. I followed those and used the print manual at the same time and did not have a bit of trouble. (but I know I would have not been able to put it together with just the manual alone)It is true,as many have mentioned--the cleaner is totally plastic! The downside of this means parts could break easily I am sure. Plus side of the plastic--it is lightweight and easy to move around. The plastic hopefully won't be as much of an issue for me as this cleaner is not going to be used a lot. We don't have carpet. I got it just to do furniture and a couple of area rugs, and unless there are &#34;accidents&#34; don't think I will need to use it very often. Last night I cleaned the sofa and love seat and was amazed at the dirt this cleaner sucked up! (had no idea my dark burgundy furniture was so filthy!) Very easy to attach the appliance used for cleaning upholstry, it got the fabric wet enough to clean it, and sucked up the dirty water very well, so the furniture dried quickly, felt and looked great! (by the way, not a bit of leaking from the tanks, so this was not at all messy for me to operate) It was very late so I only did a portion of an area rug just to test it, and it looks like I will have equally good results there as well. In the future I plan to use it on our ceramic tile porch floor, and as other reviewers have mentioned, am going to try doing that without purchasing the additional &#34;bare floor&#34; attachment after reading that you can do floors without it...After cleaning my furniture I was very careful to clean out the tanks, and hose. Since this is not an expensive cleaner, and considering what it is made of I am sure that taking time to clean it well after each use is important.I gave this four stars because like many others, I am not pleased that it is called a &#34;steam vac&#34; when it actually is not. (and I don't care how hot the water is, this machine is not going to &#34;steam&#34;) Anyone not doing their research could easily be fooled into thinking this is a real steam cleaner, so shame on Hoover for naming it as one! All in all I am happy with this cleaner, but would have wanted something more &#34;sturdy&#34; if I had a lot of carpets--messes to clean.


