1344297600
4.0
review/summary: Good one cup machine for the moneyreview/text: This machine arrived quickly and adequately packaged to prevent damage. I opened it up, read the instructions and ran it through an empty cycle to clean it prior to my first use without any issue.The machine works well for the amount of money I spent. I opted for inexpensive and simple over expensive and fancy and am getting more than I paid for. The machine works well and brews a full large 15 oz cup of coffee in about the time it takes to brush my teeth and get dressed.The water reservoir in the unit only holds up to about 15 ounces of liquid and will continue emptying until all the water is gone. This means you have to be careful not to put too much water in the unit. This can easily be accomplished by just filling the cup you intend to use to the brim and pouring it into the reservoir. Filling it to the brim should leave plenty of room for cream and sugar, if desired, in the resulting cup as some of the liquid will be retained in the grounds. Hitting the reservoir when filling is easier said than done as the reservoir is not removable and is an arc around the round brewing chamber and couldn't be much over an inch wide. This makes missing the reservoir and spilling down the side or into the brew chamber relatively easy with anything less than good aim and steady hands and both will result in water on the counter as water into the brewing pot will immediately exit via the drip spout where the cup would go (and if using the cup to fill would then spill all over the counter instead of being caught by said cup).One of the best features of this machine is the removable and reusable metal filter. No more annoying paper filters to run out of or slip down in the pot filling your cup with grounds. The filter and the brew chamber are both easily removable and can be quickly dumped into the garbage with a few knocks, rinsed in the sink and be ready to brew another pot in seconds. The filter seems to have held up well so far and hasn't clogged or rusted and weeks later continues to function as new, even with my less than stellar maintenance of it. I also no longer have the paper taste to my tea from regular filters and haven't noticed any metal flavor as a result of the included filter.Overall this machine has been a great purchase that I don't regret one bit. It replaced my big 12 cup coffee machine that was getting so annoying to operate that I found myself rarely making tea or coffee anymore. I am now back making coffee and/or tea most days of the week and am loving every minute of it.The larger reservoirs that need filled less often and the predefined brew sizes would be nice features to have but for 1/10th of the price I will take the minor shortcomings of this unit any day. This is a solid unit and performs above and beyond expectations.


