1358899200
5.0
review/summary: Over 20 years of love for the Salad Shooter... my go-to for cheese, carrots, and cucumbersreview/text: I originally got a Salad Shooter for a wedding gift over 20 years ago. After over 10+ years of abuse I needed to replace it. Then my house burned down, and it was one of the first things I replaced all over again.I only use 3 pieces: the grater for cheese and carrots, the slicer for cucumbers, and the ripple cut slicer for carrots (soup, etc). I don't even bother with the cone (one more piece to wash).It's worth having just for the cheese and carrots.In the beginning, when we could eat lots of cheese and not gain weight, we would save tons of money by buying blocks at the big-box store, grating it, and freezing it in ziplocs.Now that we are much more veggie-oriented, we use it to shred carrots, which we load on our salads to make them more substantial. Grated carrots can be further ground in a mini food processor or immersion blender cup and used to make a healthier burger, meatloaf or homemade veggie burgers without the additives. We ripple cut carrots for stir-fry and soup.We cut cucumber slices for salad with it.That's it. But I'm lost without it. Recently I was visiting my folks and tried grating carrots for my salad with a box grater. I still have the scars on my knuckles.I do buy pre-shredded cheese, mostly on sale, but these days if you're watching your bottom line closely, you can save some cash over the course of a year buying cheese in bulk, shredding, and freezing it. The texture changes a little, gets a little sticky, but if you're using it for pizza, mac and cheese, or whatever, it doesn't make a difference.I no longer have a dishwasher, but it's easy to wash the Salad Shooter with a dish brush.When I cram the chute full of something hard like carrots, I make sure I push, let up, push, let up on the pressure so I don't overheat the motor. I'm not sure that it would, but I've had surprising experiences with other heavy-duty appliances that overheated quickly, so I don't take any chances.I lost the ring that screws on to the front that holds in the attachment (maybe it got thrown out when cleaning up the kitchen) but easily found a replacement online.


