1360972800
4.0
review/summary: Finally Found a Percolator!review/text: I did some research on percolators that had a wide range of prices and claims. I kept coming back to Farberware. What I really like is that all the parts are made of 18/10 stainless steel, with the exception of the transparent plastic piece on top. In fact, I read reviews complaining about the plastic melting after awhile. There is a glass piece selling here at Amazon for $5.69 with free shipping under the title &#34;Clear glass percolator top, fits Farberware, etc. by Fits-All.&#34; I have not received it yet so we shall see if it really &#34;fits all.&#34; A couple of reviewers mentioned other alternatives. As far as the complaint re: the lid being too tight, true but if it was not people would be pouring coffee all over the counter and themselves! The coffee is very hot so use caution. In terms of the spout hole being too small, bull! It pours out just fine, thank you very much. When it comes time to wash it just allow it to cool down and then twist and pull the lid, not too difficult. Getting back back to the stainless steel parts...It is extremely sturdy and solid. I saw other percolators reviewed where customers complained of the thin metal used. Some were selling for as much as $60! The Farberware Classic Stainless Steel Yosemite 8-Cup that I bought was only $24.95 and the only other well built percolator that I've seen was $169.99! So a very ggod buy here ladies and gentleman!It brewed wonderfully but I have some TIPS:Wash it with warm soap and water before you use it. Rinse extremely well otherwise your coffee will taste strange.It is true that one has to place the percolator handle away from the burner, toward the counter, so it remains cool.Use coarse coffee grinds and wet the basket well before you place the grounds in the basket. You won't get ANY particles in your coffee once brewed.If you have an electric stove don't go below 5 or above 7. If you have a gas stove use a medium-sized flame.Do not walk away and forget about the pot! It brews quickly so there is a potential for the pot to brew dry and catch fire.For best results, wash the pot lightly after every use so there is no buildup inside the pot or basket. the oil buildup makes coffee taste weird after awhile.Lastly, I used 6 tablespoons for 8 cups and the coffee was a little weak.. I will use double the amount next time. That should solve the problem but I am still in the experimental stage.Hope this helps!


