1360195200
4.0
review/summary: Pretty goodreview/text: I've had an Aeropress for a little over a year now. I don't use it very much anymore. I will explain why.First of all, the claim that it makes espresso ("This will result in a double espresso") is a straight lie. This thing has neither the pressure, nor the heat (recommended temp is 175, not ~200 like real espresso). What we are dealing with here is a combination of french press and drip.You get the even flavor extraction of french press with the smoothness of paper-filtered drip. You do lose some of the oils in the process. There is an inverted method for brewing which I tried once (messily) that gives you more of the oils. The filtered coffee does stay fresher longer; you don't have to worry about little grounds at the bottom that continue to brew in hot coffee, or make you make the yuck face in surprise when you get to the end of a cup.It uses a lot of grounds for a small amount of coffee. Using roughly the same amount of grounds, I can make twice the coffee in a Moka pot, with a stronger extraction. The lower temperature yields somewhat weaker, more subtle coffee, which doesn't do well watered down to an Americano for instance. I think this is why you have to use more grounds.The main reason why I don't use it anymore, is that it really should be brewed between 175 and 180, but I don't have the time to slowly heat water while testing it with a thermometer to make sure it's the right temperature. HOWEVER, if you have a hot water spigot on your sink, or an adjustable water heater, this solves the problem entirely.The pros are that it is very easy to clean (as in, you don't have to clean it; it basically cleans itself), and the coffee is a truly glorified filtered coffee. You can taste the difference of an even extraction. Fresh-roasted, fresh-ground coffee makes an immense difference too.So if you have a hot water spigot set to 175, you like subtler coffee and can spare the $$ for more beans, this is a great coffee maker. I am none of those three. There is nothing wrong with the device itself, as far as I have experienced, it's just not that convenient for me.


