1356048000
5.0
review/summary: Damn Fine Machine!review/text: I've used this pressure canner as several times now so I feel comfortable writting a review.First off, Don't let the word Aluminum fool you, this is a beast, it is heavy empty and more so full. Others have mentioned that you should not run cold water over the canner to make the pressure drop faster, I will add that if you ignore their warnings and try to move the canner when full, lift with your knees, cause it's going to weigh a lot.The first time we used it was as a pressure cooker. We put in a 11 pound turkey (yes it fit with space to spare) a couple cups of water, and then covered the turkey with some marinade before pressurizing it for something like 3-4 minutes per pound.After about a half hour, we found the turkey was slightly over done (compare that with a 11lb turkey in your oven) and the bird was literally falling apart as we pulled it out. All of the joints were just giving way, and the meat was so wonderfully moist and delicious. The marinade had pushed it's way into the meat more then I had expected... We did do another turkey and cooked for a shorter time, it was easier to get out of the pot afterwards, and still just as delicious. (we did use less water the second time, cause the bird gave up quiet a bit of it's own juice to the broth that was in the bottom of the pot when we were done cooking)As for canning, I've canned a few jars of starter wort for home brewing in this. Wort doesn't have a PH low enough for a hot water bath, and I don't always have space in my fridge. Rather then making and boiling a starer each time I canned it for use ahead of time.For any one that has done hot water bath canning and opened the jars later on, you know there is a vacuum inside the jars (it's what holds the lid on) When opening my jars of starter wort I had an experience I've never had with hot water bath canning. The fluid in the jar was literally being sucked out of the top as I pried the lid off (I say pried because it takes some leverage to open these jars) the liquid in the jar actually lifted up and out of the opening of the lid. The decompression from opening the jar was enough for the liquid to lift up the 1/2 inch of head space and splash out at me... While it was only a small amount, I'm more careful when opening pressure canned jars now.Over all this has been a great purchase for canning vegetables, wort, and even using it to can sterilized water that I need for later use. (fill jars with water, pressurize to 15 psi and let it cook for ~15 minutes, natural pressure release and then the jars will be filled with nice sterilized water for use when ever you need it.)Now for the bad stuff (none of it bad enough to keep this from being a 5 star review)Aluminum isn't the greatest material for cooking... but given how heavy this pot is in aluminum it makes sense that they wouldn't use a heavier metal.The racks seem kinda flimsy, I wish there was something a little more robust.The metal on metal fitting does need to be oiled/greased before use. I used vaseline, and I re-apply ever 4-5 uses. The first time we used it we did not put anything on the seal, it pressurized, but there was alot of water boiling out around the edges. But there is no gasket to replace ever.


