1355702400
5.0
review/summary: Great cast iron panreview/text: This is my first cast iron pan (that I've owned, I mean--I do have some experience with them), after years of dealing with aluminum and some stainless steel. This is probably the best-priced cast iron pan you can find, and it's working great for me so far. It comes pre-seasoned and is fairly simple to keep seasoned if you follow some guidelines. Avoiding metal scrubbers and harsh soaps (including dishwashers) is good advice since both can remove the seasoning. Lodge's website recommends washing with no soap if you know your pan got hot enough to sanitize anything on it, but they do say mild soap can be OK if you're really concerned about it. I've usually used no soap myself. They also recommend coating with a light coat of vegetable oil after each use (but I've seen some people recommend against this in case it turns rancid, though if you use it frequently it may not matter). Basically, I recommend following the manufacturer's instructions if you've never used these before since they might be different from what you're used to.One note: the entire pan is cast iron, including the handle. Since this is not insulated, you'll want to remember to use a pot holder or slip on a silicone or other protective pan handle cover on it. These pans are also somewhat heavy, but there is a small grip on the side opposite the handle as well, which helps to lift then pan for pouring or whatever (again, you'll need a potholder). There is a lip/spout on side of the pan that can help with this, although I've never cooked something liquid enough for it to be useful for me. I've used mine exclusively on the stovetop, but they are also versatile in that they can be used in the oven or just about any heat source (campfire, etc.) except a microwave.In summary, this is a great pan, and it's quickly become my favorite skillet. It is a bit heavy (hard to lift with one hand while trying to scrape the contents into a bowl, for example), but that's the case with pretty much any good cast iron pan and something I'm learning to work around better. I hope it lasts for years and years, and I highly recommend reading the manufacturer's instructions if you've never used one before. Their website is also full of information.


