1359417600
5.0
review/summary: Awesome ice cube trays for purees & liquids (besides water)review/text: These are great little ice cube trays for storing purees and liquids. I not only store homemade baby food, but stocks and broths as well (even tomato paste). The 1 oz size makes these perfect for using later. It's super easy to grab a couple 1 oz cubes for a home-made baby dinner or dessert, or throw in the appropriate number of stock or pastes cubes in recipes, already precisely measured.I like these trays even better than plastic for high-fat and gelatinous liquids (like homemade stock or tomato paste), because these substances get stuck in the more traditional plastic trays (trying to jam stuck cubes out with hot water and a fork is a lesson in frustration).Although the trays are made from flexible silicone, the inner ribs delineating the cubes are stiff enough that the trays can be stacked, as long as the cubes are not over-filled. I use a spoon or spatula to flatten the cubes, and lightly tap the trays on the counter to settle them & remove air bubbles (although this can be messy if done too vigorously with wet purees).Another benefit of the silicone is that I feel more comfortable putting still-warm liquids and purees in them. They are dishwasher safe, and fairly non-stick, so a quick hand wash is usually all that's needed. After a few months of using, they do smell a little like the freezer, but I don't find this lingers on any of the cubes.I'm not sure I'd use these for cold liquids that easily freeze like water, since traditional plastic does so well for that. The silicone trays make stuck cubes a thing of the past, but they are a little less user friendly to work in big batches. For example, sometimes I have to push each cube individually out from the back. I have found that twisting the tray and separating the cubes first helps pushing them out.I have to keep buying more sets, because I like to make big batches of baby food and stock, and my freezer takes a few hours (overnight is best) to completely freeze the cubes. I've got 4 sets so far, for a total of 8 trays.


