1354838400
1.0
review/summary: Form follows function? NOT!review/text: I bought my first B60 Keuring machine in November 2008. It worked for about a year and then quit pumping. I called Keurig CS, explained the problem and they agreed to sell me a replacement machine for about half price plus free shipping. The new machine worked fine for a little over a year and then it too quit pumping. I called Keurig CS again and this time they agreed to replace my 2nd machine at no charge. I received my 3rd machine in December of 2010 and it was reliable until this morning when it failed to turn on. Dead, nada, zip, no power to the machine. I removed the bottom plate, checked the switch with an ohm meter and the switch works fine. The problem is elsewhere in the innards of the machine and inaccessible to us mere mortals.A call to Keurig CS about the latest failure resulted in an offer to sell me a new machine at half price. Thanks but no thanks! I elected to escalate my complaint to a higher level and am presently waiting for a call back. If I don't get satisfaction I will switch to Starbucks or Tassimo, both of which are very pricey, or whoever else offers a single cup coffeemaker.Does anyone reading this have any comment from personal experience about the Tassimo system? I like the convenience and flavor of the coffee provided by a working Keurig machine but their poor reliability is a deal breaker. If you are reading this review I urge you to browse through other negative reviews on the Amazon site before you buy into the Keurig system. To my knowledge the Breville and Cuisinart are equally as unreliable as the Keurig --- perhaps because they are made or licensed by Keurig? Buyer beware!Way back in 1896 the American architect Louis Sullivan said:It is the pervading law of all things organic and inorganic,Of all things physical and metaphysical,Of all things human and all things super-human,Of all true manifestations of the head,Of the heart, of the soul,That the life is recognizable in its expression,That form ever follows function. This is the law.Keurig is violating Mr. Sullivan's Law! Externally, Keurig coffee machines look like they were designed by Apple in Cupertino. Unfortunately the working parts inside the sleek exterior appear to have been designed by ex Yugo or Edsel engineers working in a sweat shop in China.Update on Monday Dec 10, 2012:After escalating my complaint up to a third level cs person at Keurig (I had to call them as they never called me back after a promise to do so last week) I obtained a commitment to ship me a 4th machine at no cost. This apparently knowledgeable persons explanation was that all models of the Keurig coffee makers are complex in design and operation and require some fundamental safeguards to avoid meltdown or fire, overpressure and leakage, electric shock, etc. He quizzed me in detail about the quality of my water supply which I assured him is city tap water of the highest quality. The focus of his questioning was how often and what technique did I use to de-scale my machine. Though I did do an infrequent descaling I have never gotten a DE-SCALE message on the LCD Control Center --- on ANY of my broken machines!Well, I won't bore anyone with all the details of our conversation -- it went on for about a half hour and I got a little heated at times -- suffice to say that I am happy that they will ship me a 4th brewer for free. I will religiously de-scale it on a 3 month schedule with the last cycle being an overnight one as suggested by the cs person. However, I do not think that scale is the problem! Complexity of design is.Overall I am pleased with the response of Keurig customer service and with the convenience, cost and taste of K-cup coffee but very skeptical that my 4th machine will last any longer than the previous 3. Their hardware is a complex work in progress. Beware the Breville and Cuisinart brands --- they are built under license from Keurig and from the reviews I have read they suffer from the same failures.For those of you reading this review whose machines broke down after just a few cups or in a very short period of time I have no words of help other than to suggest you call Keurig customer service and talk to a real person. Don't just accept their standard offer of a new machine at a discounted price. Be firm and escalate your complaint to at least a 3rd level if no satisfaction at the lower levels. Worked for me on two machines which were out of warranty!. Good luck.


