1346889600
5.0
review/summary: neat tricks to make coffee fastreview/text: We bought the Hamilton Beach 80374 Custom Grind Hands-Free Coffee Grinder, hoping to make the perfect grind for our Moka Express. Unfortunately the one we got came without instructions so we have been experimenting to find the best way to get a fast excellent cup of coffee. We have several different coffee machines, so if grinding for the Moka Express, we use the largest espresso grind setting. The Hamilton beach coffee grinder has a minimum cup amount, which is 4 cups. Bear in mind that most coffee pots are using a 6 ounce cup as their standard. Since our Moka Express only makes 2 cups espresso style coffee, we found that adding coffee beans until the blade in the grinder is just covered with beans worked great. It's important to be sure that the inside grinding cup is in place and then turned clock wise to lock in place before putting outside clear plastic cover on and turning clock wise to lock in place. They both need to be locked in place separately! This could be why some people claim that the grinder fails to work after a short time. If the inside cup is not locked in place the grinder will not work and if you try to force the outside clear plastic container you can damage the locking tabs. We discovered that using 2 measuring spoons of the ground beans (that come with the grinder) are perfect for the drinks we craft in our Moka Express. In order to shorten the brewing time we decided to start with boiling water in the lower chamber. We were very happy to save the 5+ minutes of brewing time. If you are using the boiling water, then obviously you will need to use a pot holder to protect your hands while connecting the top and bottom of the pot. We set our electric stovetop to 8 on heat indicator set the oven timer to 5 min. and proceed to heat and froth milk while coffee is brewing. Pour 1/2 coffee cup of froth and pour coffee over the milk froth. Hooray! coffee is wonderful. We use a medium roast coffee. The actual brew time is only about 2 min. using this method. The brewed coffee is very robust with medium roast more so then a drip method. Our over all goal was not to waste coffee. We have a family that get's up at different times and makes a full pot, which then would get thrown down the sink as who wants a cup of coffee that's a hour old. This way we get the benefit of saving money and having a relatively quick cup of coffee, kind of like the K cup machines, but without the cost. The flavor of an espresso machine without the cost and the counter space. It's been a win win for us. We have a battery run frother, that makes great frothy drinks. We bought rechargeable batteries so we would always have fresh power. Sending thanks to other people who suggest not to wash the Moka Express with soap. We are thrilled with all the great advice that has literally saved us hundreds of dollars on experimenting on other pricy coffee making products. Thanks Amazon that we have access to to simple, great, affordable products.


