1351900800
5.0
review/summary: Buy a 2nd and you will always have cold water availablereview/text: I bought TWO of these, on faith. I had never tried this system before. But have been a LONG time consumer of bottled water. I did some research and came to terms with the information that the bottled water I've been spending money on every week... And lugging from the store every week... And (worst of all) dumping into the recycling bin in the form of demon plastic every week... could actually be less pure than what comes from the tap. Utility water is monitored/tested/regulated on a regular basis. Whereas, with bottled water it's pretty much up to the provider to test (or not), get it from an uncontaminated source (or not), see to it that carcinogens aren't leaching in from the container (or not).I had been MEANing to find out the facts about this for awhile and to spend however much it was going to cost (a LOT, I figured...) to have a healthy water filtration system in my house. And I thought these filtering dispensers would be a good place to start. The reviews were so many and overwhelmingly positive that I decided to go for it. Very very pleased with them. And happy that I decided to buy two because it's not like the filtering happens instantaneously and I like to have cold cold water on hand at all times. Having two works perfectly for this. They are well-constructed, look good, and are tall/slender enough to easily fit in the fridge with space between for other things.I was in the habit of buying large 2.5 gallon dispenser style bottled water anyway. So the decision to choose Pur dispensers instead of Pur pitchers was an easy choice for me. You just open the fridge for a few seconds and fill up your glass. If you've never had dispensers consider trying them!Also worth mentioning: I was able to get a special deal that was being offered on the manufacturer's site (I have no affiliation with them) for a "Year of Water" value pack that is a supply of filters along with the faucet filter attachment marked down from 85 to 50. Seriously. The faucet attachment AND 4 filters (last for 3 months each). I can wholeheartedly recommend it. The installation is actually as easy as the video makes it look!I had assumed that having a real water filtration solution would be a costly (hundreds, I imagined), one-fine-day luxury that would require professional installation and complicated maintenance. Turns out: it costs about 50 dollars... (Just don't even ask me how much I usually spend a year for bottled water.) purwater.com


