1356739200
3.0
review/summary: Does the job, with quirksreview/text: There aren't many high output humidifiers for sale on Amazon. This one does the job, and effectively raises RH as measured in our bedroom. This is a pretty large area with the HVAC being shared with other rooms nearby, and our HVAC is high efficiency meaning it blows a lot of air quickly, sucking humidity out like a vacuum. On the worst days, it can keep the humidity at around 46%, 4pts shy of 50, but this is better than the 35% RH we'd have otherwise. Most humidifiers sold in stores would never make much of a dent in our humidity. As some have mentioned, it's fairly loud - like a loud floor fan, but we like the white noise and with the other white noise we have in our room, it hasn't bothered us one bit. I can see how this would be disruptive if your bedroom is kept very quiet without fans/etc.Now for the quirks.1) With this level of output, the two 1.7gallon tanks need to be refilled 2-3 times per day. I wish they provided higher capacity tanks.2) The tanks are awkward to fill. There is no handle to hold when they are upside down being filled, so it's a tricky balancing act to get them to stand without tipping and spilling the water while I screw the cap on. Very poor ergonomic design. It's so poor, I can't even have my wife fill them due to the weight and difficulty3) The knob on the 6009 model has to be adjusted regularly. In theory, when I lock it in to 50% humidity, it should always be 50%, but I have to tune it up or down based on how much the heater is running. These subtle changes amount to a 3-5pt change in HR. The 6011 model may address this with an actual humidity setting vs the &#34;one drop, two drop, three drop&#34; settings on the 6009 we have.4) Not sure how long the filter is supposed to last, but our unit is only 4 weeks old and I think the filter needs to be changed soon. At this price, would have liked to see a filterless scrubbing system.The unit does the job, but I wish it was easier to fill and would last longer. For this size, I would think a larger tank would be doable.


