1355011200
2.0
review/summary: Debating a short review, but feel compelledreview/text: To create a critical mass in helping folks better understand the trend here: the coffee maker is decent. Is it worth the price? Not at all. Here's the summary of what's happened.I bought this Zojirushi, based on rave reviews, last November, and then didn't receive/begin to use until December. In June of this year (six months later...) it began to leak. Then, there appeared to be an issue with the water reservoir red ball (gauges water volume) to work; it became lodged in its column. Yes, I did clean the coffeemaker often enough, and 90% of the time I had used distilled water.After contacting Zojirushi in hoping they'd make good on their 1-year warranty, they suggested I go through a dog-and-pony-show of *thoroughly* cleaning the coffeemaker, and that all issues were somehow - never said, though implied - caused by user-error. Fine. Maybe I haven't been brewing coffee properly or learned anything in 34 years of life, in the way of responsibility or common sense. So, I went through their various suggestions, and each of their suggestions' steps (with exception to being told to buy one of their cleanser products)... only to then realize the water reservoir had started to leak. Since I'm the only one in the house that drinks coffee, the reservoir is never filled up to the top, or even close to, so that was not it, as was suggested.So, I contact Zojirushi again - and now it's the end of November - 1 year and 2 days PAST the very date I had purchased this from Amazon. They won't honor their warranty, since it's been past a year. My response was that I had initially contacted them with an issue much before this deadline, and after a couple of days, I received a response to pay for shipping back to them, and they would have a look at it. Also, to purchase delivery confirmation and insurance. It wasn't worth the cost to ship it, so here I am on Amazon a little over a year later, hoping to have better luck with a DIFFERENT brand.What I liked about the machine while it worked:-Hot coffee, usually not burnt, and stayed as such in the carafe for about an hour before being too cool (and not the good kind!) - as in temperature safe enough for a small child to drink; lukewarm.-Filter basket, and holder could be lifted from the machine, and very easy to wash/rinse.-Nice guy from customer service... for what it's worth.Features I did not care for:-Timer/clock is definitely not built by the Swiss, I know, but no matter how many times I set it, it was 'off'; usually running slower than all other clocks in the house (set by my phone's clock each time).-Shower head over coffee did *not* evenly disperse water. Sometimes after a full four-cup brew, there would be a remaining 1/3 of *bone dry* coffee grounds sitting in the filter. What I usually did to circumvent this issue was to swing the arm from one direction to the other, mid-brew. An annoying, and/or wasteful attribute. Also, the swing-span of the arm is weird; it will swing completely over the water reservoir, but will only swing back over the coffee filter area, except the last inch on the left. Not sure why. This taught me that I ought to fill my grounds more in the middle and on the right of the filter.-Carafe had a breach somewhere between the inner layer/ insulation, and the metal exterior; faulty seal(s)? Not sure if it was localized to only one spot (around the handle, which would have water streaming out from around it after being washed) or if it was where the bottom portion of the metal met the top (there's a millimeter gap where perhaps the metal is no longer sealed).-Stopped being easy-going, and became a pain when I couldn't rely on the markers outside of the reservoir to read how much water I had poured (because of the red level ball), and had to use my Pyrex (four cups of water more or less equated two regular-sized mugs of coffee, which is my standard).-The seals were faulty not just in the carafe (cheaper to replace than the entire machine!) The cost to send in carafe + machine was almost as much as a decent maker I may have found as a replacement.Overall:Not worth the price, hassle, headache, or lack in quality expected from a product of its brand reputation. For me, all I want is for a simple coffeemaker with a timer, is easy to clean, and has a thermal carafe. I have no real allegiance to a particular brand, just as long as it is functional and trustworthy. Outwardly, this machine has it all, though caveat emptor that the quality of craftsmanship is rather poor, and while I'm hoping that my machine was uniquely affected in this way, I have a feeling in talking with their customer service (not to mention other reviews) that perhaps it is not. If it's a craps shoot, then good luck. Me? I don't gamble much, not with my money, and am of the mind that devices like this should make our lives easier, not cost us time and more expense. This receives 1.5 stars; one star for at least working for six months before falling apart, and half a star for being relatively easy to clean.


