1361145600
4.0
review/summary: Get off the couch and buy something like this- you won't be wrong- you can do betterreview/text: I purchased one of these during Amazon's gold deal as I wanted to join the juicing revolution. It was the right time, right price, and all the reviews raved about its value. The reviews were right and it is probably the absolute best masticating juicer on the market. Coupled with the strainer, it produces a fine liquid and squeezes every bit of juice out from the plant. I liked it so much, I actually purchased 2- and then purchased a J8006 (minor differences). The J8005's went to other people and so we made use of the J8006 everyday, like we had our initial J8005. Both work excellently and both required WORK to get the juice. As most folks describe, you do have to cut up your fruits into small enough pieces to fit into the top portion, and that is a bit of a chore. It does take time to prepare and that became our only real issue. SO-----leave it to Amazon to offer a promotion one day on a Vitamix-- that I had heard about long after my purchase of the J8005/J8006. So, being hooked on these liquid diets by now, I took advantage of the offer for a Vitamix and have not used the J800X product since. It is not that the J800X is not a great product, it is simply faster to use the Vitamix, throw everything in, blend and drink. The Vitamix also pulverizes the pulp so that you're drinking the nutrients of many plants whereas the J800X actually is designed to filter out the pulp and give you the pure juice. The Vitamix pulverizes everthing into a liquid. BUT--- the Vitamix costs more than the J800X. So, you get what you pay for! However, if you watch for an Amazon Gold Special, you can usually find the Vitamix close to normal price on the J800X, so if I had my choice, I'd go for the Vitamix. And yes, I do have a J8006 for sale. The Vitamix has just simplified our juicing, and my wife now swears by it as it takes a fraction of the time and effort of the J800X products. Whatever you do, go get one of these-- they will change your life forever. You really can lose weight and feel great. Combine this with the right exercise and you'll be on the way to health living.


