1353196800
3.0
review/summary: Some good, some bad, some ideas...review/text: I'm not a juice fanatic or claim to know a lot about juicing or juicers, but I was expecting a little more considering all the great reviews. Granted the only other juicer I've really ever used was my mom's old champion. I chose not to get a champion or similar unit for several reasons, and this one seemed a better choice considering:1. Size - I have a tiny apartment now and have 0 space.2. Weight - when I bought this I was looking at a job that would have had me moving overseas. Didn't want to ship.3. Cost - self explanatory. First, I bought this one refurbished on amazon. I know myself well enough to know I would use it quite a bit at first, then would quickly taper off to something I use seldom to rarely. I was right and am still glad I didn't spend 3 or 4 times as much on something fancy.I bought this primarily for making carrot juice and it works fairly well for that. Good amount of juice, not too much foam, and the pulp was "reasonably dry".The other day I got the bright idea to do a "juice cleanse" so I started running a bunch of other things through. Though it's not a bad product I found several things I didn't like. Also came up with some ideas to make it a little better.1. Sucks for leafy greens. I know everyone says you need a masticating juicer for that but I was still expecting a little more. Very little juice and very wet pulp. Other fruits/veggies produced wet pulp as well but leafy greens were the worst. To be fair I remember thinking even the stuff that came out of the champion, leafy greens or other, still had some good juice in it.2. Lets the last good size chunk of the fruit or vegetable through without juicing.3. Doesn't auto eject pulp. I knew it didn't when I bought it, but it turned out to be much more of a pain than I thought when i started making a lot of juice at once.4. Difficult to clean the narrow channel in the pulp tray without the right size and shape brush. The brush that comes with it is basically worthless. If you have a dishwasher pay this no mind. I don't but was lucky to find a cheap dish brush that works pretty well. Actually it was the cheapest one I saw at bed bath and beyond, a set of 2 brushes for like $3.Anyway. I'm still happy enough with this unit. I still don't use it that often and I still don't want to pay a lot of money for something else. I have found a couple tricks to get more out of it and make things a little cleaner:1. Take the pulp and wring it through cheese cloth a handful or 2 at a time. I've gotten between 10 and 50% more juice doing this, depending on what I'm juicing. I'm sure you'd get even more out if you had a juice press, but I don't nor do I plan to get one. Just be careful you don't squeeze to hard to fast or you can squirt it all over you and your kitchen. Oh yeah, wear crappy cloths, especially with things like carrots, beets, and spinach.2. Put whatever in biggest side first (i.e. carrots), this way the piece that slips through at the end is smaller. I pick out the big chunks before the cheese cloth squeeze and put them in the pot with all my other veggie end cuts to cook down for stock. The big fruit chunks I just eat.3. Get a big bowl (if you're going to squeeze) or trash can to knock out the pulp into. Scooping out with your hand gets pulp everywhere.4. When you take the pulp catcher off to clean, tilt it into the juice catcher for a few seconds. There's still some juice in there that's going on your floor.All things considered, with a couple adjustments and extra steps it does everything I need it to. It works well enough for me and I'll use it until it doesn't work for me anymore.


