1348790400
5.0
review/summary: Excellent one-handed cycling hydration solution from Thermosreview/text: Needed to find a new water bottle for cycling, and doing a search here on Amazon found that there were many. After going through a number of reviews, ended up with thisThermos 18-Ounce Stainless-Steel Hydration Bottlein brown, and up front must say that it has lived up to my expectations, and perhaps has exceeded them in some ways.My first experience with insulating storage vessels came in the early '50s when a relative showed up at a family event with one of those iconic plaid Skotch Koolers invented by the late Petra Cabot. Shortly afterwards my mother gave me my first Thermos brand container with it's steel Tartanware plaid shell and insulated glass insert for elementary school use. Ever since then, there has been a Thermos kicking around in one form or another.First Impressions:Removed the new Thermos from the box and was immediately impressed with both it's stainless-steel interior and exterior design and ergonomics. It was easy to see that this could be "one-handed" when out on a long bike ride, and the rubberized grip is appreciated by one who has lost wet cycling bottles while on a ride. This model has a nicely designed thumb button for quick release when riding, and there's a small safety device to prevent the button from releasing its spring loaded top.In Use:It should be noted that this product should be hand washed before use, just like any other product you would get for food or beverage consumption. But before you wash it, remove the instruction sheet from the inside unless you want a sopping wet mess of paper that you'll have to deal with.I had to find out if this product would live up to its claim of keeping liquids cold for up to 12 hours, so I tested it. Took the cap off and slipped a couple of ice cubes inside along with tap water and "pre-chilled" it for a couple of minutes, then replaced the water with chilled bottled water from the refrigerator. I just let it sit on a table in moderate sunlight and forgot it. About ten hours later, popped the lid and took a drink... it was still cold.This Thermos bottle not only has to be used when out cycling on my MTB, but it was important that if would fit in the outside pocket of my camera bag while out in the field, and it did that easily. The little locking ring on the sipper lid's pushbutton is an excellent reassurance that my camera gear isn't going to get wet. Had also considered theTiger MMQ-A045 Tiger .45 Liter Thermal Vacuum Tumbler, but that translates to 15 ounces, three lass than the Thermos product. It also had no rubber grip.Summary:TheThermos 18-Ounce Stainless-Steel Hydration Bottlehas proven to be an excellent hydration solution when cycling. One press of the button and the flip top is open in a smooth one hand operation, making it both safe and convenient. It had also proven to be great for carrying water in the exterior pocket on my camera bag when in the field, making it a true 5-star, highly recommended product.9/28/2012


