1349136000
5.0
review/summary: A Great Starter Juicerreview/text: Before I started juicing, I did a lot of research on juicing and what kind of juicer to get and ultimately decided to get an inexpensive juicer to start with. After reading a lot of reviews, I finally went this juicer and I'm glad I did.PROS:Price - You really can't beat the price for such a good juicer, especially if you're just getting into it and not wanting to spend a lot of money. This juicer will give you a great first experience with juicing, and you can always upgrade.Durability - I bought mine back in April of this year, and even after using almost every single day since, I'm amazed at how well it's holding up. I haven't had any problems with it so far. I do cut up almost everything I put it in though (apples into quarters, large cucumber slices, etc.), which I believe helps.Cleaning - As long as you rinse it off right after you use it, then it's only a few minutes to clean since it all comes apart easily (into about 5 pieces). It also comes with a scrub brush for cleaning, which makes cleaning the tiny holes in the metal basket much easier.CONS:Efficiency - This juicer does great with the more solid fruits and veggies, but if you want to really be efficient, then you might want to put some of that juicier pulp through another time. When I do carrots, the pulp comes out pretty dry. Something like a cucumber isn't quite as dry as I'd like, but dry enough I'm fine with not putting it through again. I juiced a small watermelon a few weeks ago, and after putting the pulp through about 3 times and even taking out the metal basket and unclogging it during the process, I ended up with only about a quarter cup of pulp. So it's possible to make it more efficient, but it might take a few more steps than other juicers.Greens - While it can do kale and spinach and the like, you're just not going to get as much juice out of it as you would with a masticating juicer. However that's part of what you're paying for (or lack thereof), since those kinds of juicers would be hundreds of dollars more. It's still a powerful juicer, so a good few handfuls of kale makes about a shot glass of juice. I don't mind this though because then you can do kale shots! Yum.Overall, this is a great juicer that I haven't had any major complaints about. I've recommended it to quite a few friends who are also happy with it, and happy with the price. Even for a juice-savvy person, I think this juicer is a great one and would be a great replacement as long as you're not used to doing too many greens-heavy juices.


