1352246400
2.0
review/summary: USES TOO MUCH WATER...or simply stopsreview/text: First, the unit we purchased appeared to be new but was not in the original packaging. Probably my fault for trying to get a lower price. Regardless, the unit appears to works fine.We like using humidifiers for the dry Southern California air but also because of the gentle drone of white noise they create. We use it ONLY during the night. In this unit there is a fan control with several different settings. There's also a humidistat that is a continuously variable control.The problem I have with this unit is that if you set the humidistat for xx humidity percentage, and the humidity goes over that percentage, the whole unit shuts down. This kills the soft white noise which we find relaxing. SO, the only way to make sure the fan continues to run all night is by raising the humidity level higher....MUCH higher. This, in turn, makes the air feel "damp", increases the use of water and empties the water reservoirs MUCH faster than other humidifiers we've had. Re-filling humidifiers is a pain and we bought the HCM-6009 because it had a larger water capacity. Now we find we're refilling this large-capacity unit more often than smaller capacity humidifiers.The directions explain: Continuous Mode: If you want your unit to run continuously, select a fan speed level. (Do not set your humidistat.) It will run at your selected speed until you shut it off or it runs out of water. . .This DOES NOT WORK FOR US. If we select the lowest humidity level (NO SETTING, or setting at zero), the unit does not run, period. If we try to set the humidistat at a low setting, the unit goes on and off repeatedly through the night. It's possible our unit is defective but since I never received the original box or packing materials, I don't want to spend hours of time and $30-$50 to send it back for repairs.If Honeywell provided the ability for the user to choose whether they wanted the fan to remain on continuously regardless of the humidity setting, or to stop when the desired humidity is reached...well that would cost an extra 50 cents for a switch and virtually no design costs (I have a degree in electrical engineering, this modification is not rocket science and I'm considering making the mod myself).The HCM-6009 has great potential but it lacks a very simple action that would greatly increase it's effectiveness and efficiency.


