1357084800
5.0
review/summary: Better than the $250+ humidifiers!review/text: I had previously purchased the most expensive PureGuardian humidifier model for my son's nursery... Within one calendar year, enough of the metal plating on the ultrasonic disk had eroded to make the unit no longer operable. I had cleaned via strict guidelines in the manual; however this did not extend the life of the unit at all.After throwing over $250 away, I spent about 50 hours researching an adequate replacement. My research had shown that the following:1. ceramic ultrasonic plate is much better option and will assist the unit in lasting much longer-- this unit has it!2. Cool AND warm mist humidifiers that are combined are a very false form of marketing because the WARM function only heats 2-3 degrees warmer than the COOL mist option.3. Daily cleaning is recommended; however life can get in the way... I clean mine via the video instructions with white vinegar weekly. An old bottle brush is great for cleaning the hard to reach places in the tank!4. Many ultrasonic humidifiers leave a white residue on surface areas in the room of use; however this model offers a filter that can assist in having little to no residue. This also enables you to use tap water instead of paying for distilled water. KEEP original cap to the tank!! The filter takes a little time to fill the basin with water when it has run out...5. The 'hours of operation' doesn't matter past 12 for me... you're supposed to empty the tank and basin daily-- so WHY would you purchase a 300 hour tank? It's laborious to run, operate and clean a humidifier- get used to it or hire a maid.6. Humidifiers should all be on a raised surface7. This Crane unit is by far the best operational unit and one of the best values on the market... PLUS this unit will cost less to operate with the filter instead of using distilled water. After all my hours, I was shocked to see that I ended up getting the one that was the highest rated on the Walmart website.Good luck finding the humidifier that works best for you! I just ask that you PLEASE do not throw your money away on a PureGuardian ANYTHING! Please learn from my mistake.


