1347667200
5.0
review/summary: Good Buyreview/text: We recently received this after quite a bit of anticipation. I recently have become addicted to cappuccino and toured coffee shops all over the Pacific Northwest refining my tastes. I take my cappuccino dry, sans sweetener, so the taste of the espresso is very important to me. My office bought a cheap steam driven espresso maker, which is nice for an occasional cup but it produces very bitter tasting espresso. I think that is because there is not enough pressure, so you are essentially getting very strong drip coffee instead of a true espresso. Anyway, after drinking espresso for the last few months, I can no longer stand the taste of drip coffee and I knew I needed an espresso maker for home in order to reduce the amount of money I would spend at coffee shops throughout the day. I turned to Amazon for some research and decided on this unit.The size is compact. A lot of reviewers have complained about it. I simply use a ceramic sake cup when pulling shots and then pour into my travel mug. I use a 1 cup Pyrex glass measuring cup to steam my milk. Problem solved.The built in tamp works fine. I know some people have purchased a separate tamp but I do not find that to be necessary.Pre-heat time generally does not take 15 minutes. I usually turn it on to heat, grind my coffee beans, load and tamp and when I am done its ready to go!The milk frother works okay. Its not amazing. Sometimes I get a really good froth and sometimes not so much. It doesn't bother me, I just use a hand whisk to froth up my milk if its not frothy enough. I only do this on the weekends when I have more time in the morning. When I am on my way to work, I just use the frother on the machine and its fine. I guess in that case, I get a latte instead of a cappuccino, but the point to be caffeinated, not be picky about milk froth.I am not and have never been a barista, so if there are better techniques to making a cappuccino, I don't know them. But I have spent a lot of money on cappuccinos at coffee shops and this tastes just as good as anything I can get where I live. It isn't quite as good some of the coffee shops in Portland, but since I only travel there occasionally, I'm very pleased with the quality I can achieve at home.If you buy espresso based drinks at a coffee shops once a day, this is worth it. I calculated that we will have to make 24-30 drinks with it to justify the price. I drink about 2 cappucinos a day and my hubs drinks an americano in the morning, so it won't take long for us to recoup the cost.UPDATE: My machine started to drip very slow and the last two shots I pulled tasted burnt. It was producing very strong espresso but with no crema, just black, burnt, high octane espresso. It gave me a stomach ache. I was slightly annoyed. I started by running just plain water through the system, didn't help. I then ran water through the grounds basket. Helped a little. Then I took the entire grounds basket apart, including unscrewing the gasket on the bottom. I washed and rinsed it all. Now its back to new! I just pulled another shot and it was wonderfully creamy, smooth taste and fast. It was a little annoying that it already got clogged so quickly but if you just rinse it all once in a while, it will probably be fine. I also think it might have been because my DH was not grinding the coffee fine enough.


