1355616000
5.0
review/summary: Great alternative to the famous one cup brewersreview/text: This unit is perfect for the one-cup-at-a-time coffee drinker. I like it much better than the famous one cup brewer I had previously. This coffee maker is:1. Small. It takes up less counter space. How much room do you need for one cup of coffee?2. Quieter than the other. I couldn't use the old unit if people were still asleep!3. A lot less expensive. 'Nough said.4. I decide what size cup of coffee I make by how much water I put in. And each cup uses fresh water every time.5. I also decide what kind of coffee and how strong I want it to be. The reusable filter will take anywhere from a teaspoon to several tablespoons of coffee for the hairy chested crowd.The stainless steel cup that comes with it is great for the average cup drinker. It holds a good 12oz of coffee with plenty of room for cream and sugar. The lid stays on securely but comes off easily in case you forget any of the above, without sloshing out and burning you or staining you clean shirt. The water also pours very nicely from the mug into the narrow opening of the water tank without pouring down the side of the mug or coffee maker.The instructions say to put in the coffee grounds and water, put whatever cream, etc. you use in the cup, put on the lid, and place the cup on the platform and brew it with the lid on. I do put the lid on but I like to stir my coffee since I use dry creamer, so take the off after brewing and give it a stir.The only con I can think of is that the water just runs out of the hole with no closing valve like the multicup makers have. So you have to wait for every little drop to stop dripping before you can move your cup or, because the brewing platform is flat without any catchment depressions for the drips, it can run out on the counter and make a mess. I addressed this by either setting another cup in place of my mug or I fold a small paper towel and lay it on the brewing platform. (The platform is not heated)You also have to empty and rinse, or wash, the filter and filter holder, but I think the other pros I listed makes up for this minor bit of work.In conclusion, I think this is the perfect brewer for anyone who wants the convenience of a one cup brewer without the expense and size and noise! of the more famous brand.I highly recommend this coffee maker.


