1353974400
4.0
review/summary: Works fine, great for a lower-end vacuum.review/text: When we bought our last vac, we were about to spend $80 or so, and then I posed the question: what would $150 get us? What about $200? Should we spend more and maybe get something better? So we bought an upright Eur*, for about $160 or so - was bag-free, had an attachment to vacuum upholstery, nothing too fancy really. It held up for about 18 months, but the plastic parts just couldn't stand the test of time. (1400sf, no carpet, pets, vac'd 2x weekly... not sure how much of a test that is.) The motor was fine, but the thing was just falling apart, and the upholstery vac was actually just garbage from day 1.Anyhow, when it came to deciding on a replacement, we decided to either spend a lot less, or a lot more - and after reducing our options, we decided to go for the "a lot less" option, mostly because we don't have carpet, and also I'm just skeptical that even spending $300 would get us a decent vacuum - I'm of the belief that they're all crap until you start talking $500, $600 or more... and so with that in mind, it was pretty easy to roll the dice on the cheaper option. And I can say we've been fairly pleased, after about 4 or 5 months.In terms of positives, it's pretty light, the cord is reasonably long, changing filters is easy, and suction is great. Also, I now realize that I prefer the tow-behind/beater-free style of vacuum to the upright style - I can reach a lot more spots now, and since we don't have carpet it doesn't make any sense to have a vacuum with a beater bar.As for negatives, it really comes down to the kit that comes with it: the vacuum attachment is comprised of 2 plastic tubing pieces connected together (like the kind that come with a shopvac), and they can come apart as you're vacuuming; the hose is pretty flimsy and bends/crimps onto itself way too easily; the big wheels don't really spin when you drag it along the floor, so... the word "drag" says it all (and maybe the hard surfaces I have simply don't offer enough friction). But as complaints go, I haven't found any of these to be deal-breakers.So in summary, we're pretty happy, mostly because it's cheap & it works fine. Again though, I think the particulars of our situation play into this vacuum's favor: small-ish space, hard surfaces / no carpets, no stairs.


