1354492800
5.0
review/summary: A true improvement in taste if you follow a systemreview/text: I came across the AeroPress on Amazon by chance, but I'm forever grateful that I purchased it. This coffee maker is more than what it seems. Unlike anything else in the coffee-brewing microcosm, it's a true invention, what I would call "a better mousetrap." The AeroPressAerobie AeroPress Coffee and Espresso Makermakes fabulous coffee, and it does so for far less money than other methods. Even its paper filter system is a triumph of environment-saving brilliance; the small paper disks that come with this set are washable and reusable! Now, to get the best results out of the AeroPress, a few caveats. You should plan on devoting more time and attention than usual in your coffee brewing. With a four-cup capacity per prep cycle, it's best reserved for small batches. It takes some elbow grease to press a four-cup serving; my petite wife found that somewhat of a challenge. And for best results, you need to attend to precise measuring, temperature, and timing directions. This is perfect for me, a control freak. Here are 10 of my suggestions to systemize your usage based on a couple of months of my ownership experiences: 1. Start with a good-tasting coffee bean (my current favorite is Peet's Coffee Major Dickason's Blend, which I pick up at my Publix grocery story). 2. Count down your grinding time and keep that consistent; I've found that my Krups grinder takes about a 25 count to produce a rich taste that isn't too fine a grind, which gets tougher to push the water through the AeroPress. I am using my old Cuisinart thermal carafe to press into; it's a perfect fiit for the AeroPress. 3. Water temperature is critical; 160 to 165 degrees F. is best. Heating the water itself can be time-consuming. I found a T-fal electric kettle with a stainless steel diamond elementT-fal BF6138US Balanced Living 1-Liter 1750-Watt Electric Mini Kettle with Variable Temperature, Blackgets the water hot fast, and if you fill it a little past its maximum water level gauge there's enough water for two batches of coffee (a total of 40 ounces) with the AeroPress. I use filtered water. 4. Control the water temperature with a 16-ounce Pyrex measuring cupPyrex Prepware 2-Cup Measuring Cup, Clear with Red Measurementsand an instant food thermometerTaylor Classic Instant-Read Pocket Thermometer. 5. Once your boiled water is ready, pour 8 ounces into the Pyrex and wait briefly for its temperature to hit the 160 F. mark, then dribble it into the press filled with ground coffee. 6. Stir the mixture, making sure to reach the bottom so that all the coffee is immersed. The direction say to stir for 10 seconds, but I've done it for double that time without any apparent negative effects. 7. Now push the rubber plunger into the device and press it. As the resistance builds, keep bearing down firmly but be patient; it'll take a while. Don't rush it, and be sure to keep your other hand holding onto the AeroPress base so it doesn't slip off the carafe. Eventually, you'll hear a hissing noise as most of the water is through and only some air escapes. 9. In the second batch, just remove the used filter and filter cover and rinse them out for reuse. 10. Finally, if you're making espresso, you're done. Drink up. For American brew strength, add up to four ounces of hot water to the carafe for each cup you pressed. One final thought: For those of you who might find my system too involved, you might think you need to look elsewhere. But I have found that this system doesn't take much more time than my old Cuisinart did; it just isn't so automatic. However, when it comes to clean-up, the AeroPress is almost no trouble at all. Just rinse everything off for next time. And, if you want to enjoy an incomparably strong, smooth, non-bitter, non-acidic cup of joe, the AeroPress does it like nothing else I've ever tasted.


