1358812800
5.0
review/summary: Does the job wellreview/text: After research and asking around, I decided on the Capresso 560.01 Infinity Burr Grinder. The conical burrs provide a uniform grind for my French press, Aeropress, and drip system. I appreciate that the noise levels are reasonable. A silent grinder is out of the question: hard coffee beans are being ground down, so I'd expect some noise. That said, I'm amazed at how quiet this turned out to be.Pros:Static from fine grounds in the collection bin is minimal. I prefer a fine ground and the walls are clear and ground free. As mentioned in reviews for other products, this can be an annoying concern. Fortunately the Capresso nailed it.Feeder- the beans don't get stuck regardless of size: I tried regrinding some &#34;pre-ground&#34; coffee, needing a finer grind. I had to shake it a few times as the grounds wouldn't move so much, but frankly, I'm not sure this product was even designed to do this. So major plus for me. I ran a few whole beans after with no problems. Both pre-ground and whole bean resulted in uniform grounds in the collector.Size- I appreciate that this is more oval and less circular meaning that I can place in on the counter without taking up so much space. It's an agile machine that fits most places. I don't need a large feeder so the size it was designed with was great.Scoop- it conveniently fits into the collector for easy storage. I'm not sure if this was intentional, however, I appreciate it.Grinding grades- the gradations in grind size hold true. The &#34;extra fine&#34; is in fact extra fine, and there is a noticeable difference between this and the regular &#34;fine&#34; a detail that is important to many people with different brewing systems.Cons:Timer- the grinding runs off a 1-10 &#34;timer&#34; system. It's not seconds and I don't think it correlates with the ounces of whole beans I put in, so I'm not sure what this is for. When I'm making coffee for multiple people I end up having to put the timer on 10 multiple times, which isn't a major problem, but I question this system versus the use of an on/off switch. I can see that one would want to walk away and not have to sit and wait for their beans to fully grind, but I would have liked an alternative option in addition to the egg timer style. Greedily, I would like to have both.Overall I'm fully satisfied with this product and hope that I can continue to use it for a long time.


