1356220800
5.0
review/summary: Makes Apple Juice Like Nobody's Business!review/text: After lusting for a high end masticating juicer for quite some time, I finally picked up this baby on a holiday goldbox special for the deeply discounted price of $160. The unit arrived in well protected packaging and worked flawlessly right out of the box. Directions are very straightforward and putting it together to make juice should be a snap for any capable person. Now, on to the juicing!Other users claimed to have a very tough time making apple juice, but don't believe it. I used three pounds of fresh organic Fuji and Pink Lady apples, stored in the fridge overnight. The are two attachments the auger crushes fruit against. One has a screen, one doesn't. If you want apple juice, you use the one with the screen. Incidentally, in my model, this attachment came preassembled with the auger and juicing vessel. I washed all parts, cut up apples, turned on the unit and fed them into the feeder tube. BTW, long apple slices definitely work better for this purpose than fat chunks. Instant apple juice! Also a lot of fruit pulp that came out of the extruder. The apple juice I made tasted fresh and sweet with no need for any extra sugar. I did add some fresh sparkling spring water and a twist of lemon juice and that actually made it taste great!I'm super satisfied with my Omega J8005 and looking forward to juicing greens, carrots, pineapple, beets, etc. Clean up was also a snap, it just required taking apart the juicing attachments and rinsing them with soapy hot water. Very easy to clean. This was only my first experiment with this juicer, so I may update this review periodically.Some caveats:1. It takes a lot of fruit to make juice! I'd say I used about three pounds of cored apples to make a large 32 oz. cup of juice.2. It takes a while. The juicer will only accept fairly thin slices of fruit, so feeding three pounds of apples into it is time consuming. If you're thinking a glass of juice will be a quick substitute for breakfast in the morning before school or work, think again.3. It's kinda noisy. I didn't think the noise from the motor was a big deal, but it woke up sleeping people on the second floor of my house. Something to consider in the kitchen on an early morning.


