1346457600
4.0
review/summary: eases meal preparation, good for smaller kitchensreview/text: This smaller Cuisinart food processor is the one I use now, and I have grown to like it a lot. The three-step process of putting the top onto the base is the one drawback; as other reviewers have stated, the older models had an easier assembly, and this newer assembly is a safety feature. If you do the steps in the right order though, it's simple and easy--no more difficult than the steps to using a coffee maker--really quite simple. The machine is efficient, chops beautifully, and though its capacity is relatively small, it works fine for a family of up to 4. If you are cooking for more people, or if you make pie crust or bread a lot, I'd say go for one of the larger-capacity machines.The other comparison I can offer is that I have owned a total of 3 food processors over the years. My first was a Cuisinart large-capacity model, which I used a lot for making dough and pie crusts as well as blending and chopping. After a number of years, and after finding that I liked Kitchenaid appliances, I decided to upgrade to a Kitchenaid food processor, also a fairly large capacity one. I liked it, but within a couple of years the work bowl cracked, and when I tried to contact the company to replace it, they were unable to do so. The model was no longer being made. They were helpful and gave me the names of a couple of repair shops that might still have the part, but even that didn't lead to a new work bowl. So this time, I decided to opt for a smaller machine and go back to Cuisinart, mainly because the price is so much lower.My observations of the comparison are: the Cuisinart machine is _much_ easier to put together than the Kitchenaid. I appreciate that feature every time I use it. As for blending liquids, which some reviewers have said makes the bowl leak, I'd say get yourself an immersion blender--a good one with a stainless steel stem and blade. I now use that device for all my blending, and it's great. I don't know how I ever managed before without one. You can blend anything from a smoothie to a big pot of soup much more efficiently than a food processor could do, and without having to transfer the liquid. No chance of spilling or leaking and much better results! The Cuisinart food processor is still a very useful appliance, and I'm happy to have it for chopping duty only.


