1360627200
4.0
review/summary: Works very well after a slight learning curve...!review/text: This device really does work for giving you long, long strands of carb-free vegetable pasta--once you get over the small learning curve, and if you use some muscle. There are several videos of it in action on YouTube and I suggest watching them. The secret is that you have to apply a decent amount of pressure to help "force" the veggies through the blade. The suction cups work fairly well to anchor the unit down, and I have had the best luck applying the pressure (as in "pushing" the veggies through the blade) with the retractable handle provided to do so, though some YouTube users like to hold the unit down over the blade gate, and apply the pressure to the twirling handle. This didn't work well for me, but the manufacturers recommended procedure did. It also felt more "kind" to the plastic construction. If you did indeed try to apply the pressure with only the twirling handle, I can see the handle possibly breaking as the handle is not the strongest construction.I was surprised at how much pressure, or force (MUSCLE!), you have to use to get good results, but it's not that bad, and I think even petite women or children could handle the job with a little practice. It was important to me to get nice long (as in 2-3 feet long) "noodles". and after you semi-master applying the right amount of even pressure, and get good at securing the veggies in the unit, this spiralizer is very good at making nice L O N G "noodles". Without securing the veggies well, or if you are lack in the pressure applied, you will get a lot of small 3"-4" noodle-ettes. Some may like this, but I wanted my zucchini to be very much like long strands of pasta. And with strong even pressure you will get 75% long noodle strands.The unit does waste a fair amount of veggies, mainly in creating a long core that you need to toss out (or use for other purposes). I peeled my zucchini and between peeling, and the core, and the ends, I guesstimate the loss at 40% or so. With zucchini at $3 a pound this wasn't the end of the world, but it did cost over $7 to make enough "spaghetti" for two people. As with so much I have found on the Paleo/SCD diet, not the cheapest alternative around...!For $35 I consider this a good unit that will handles the job of zucchini noodle making very well. The plastic construction is a little flimsy, but with a gentle touch I can see this unit lasting for many years (Pandero does make an all metal version at $400!) Around this house, we have gotten addicted to our healthy carb-free zucchini pasta VERY fast indeed! Our favorite is chow mein, with the "noodles" stir fried in the wok at high temps! YUM! Also excellent is butter and garlic and parmesan--a quick classic!


