1359676800
5.0
review/summary: What a great popper, Presto!review/text: I honestly have never owned a better small appliance than the Presto PopLite Hot Air Corn Popper. I wasn't even looking for a popcorn popper but passed by it at Wal-Mart and decided it might be nice to have. This thing is terrific! It is so easy to use and super easy to clean. You place a 1/2 of a cup of kernels inside (you can conveniently use the supplied butter warmer, it's the perfect size) and then it pops out approximately four quarts of delicious, natural popcorn. There is no hassle of microwave bags, burned or uncooked kernels. This popper will also save you lots of money. The bags of plain kernels are so much cheaper than the microwave popcorn packs. I have read reviews of people stating that the popcorn gets thrown everywhere while it's popping. This never happens to me. I think it is because I use big bowls with high sides. When you are popping four quarts of popcorn at one time, it only makes sense to have a big bowl!The Presto PopLite Hot Air Corn Popper only takes about 2 minutes to pop up about about four quarts of great tasting, natural popcorn. That's quicker than the microwave any day, and much better tasting. This appliance is very lightweight, but that doesn't affect the performance. I have used mine dozens of times and each time it leaves only about 3 unpopped kernels. You can add butter and salt to fit your individual taste, and there are even dozens more ways you can find to spice up your popcorn. You are not limited to the same boring flavors that are offered in microwave popcorn varieties.The only con I could find was that there is no on/off switch. This is not a major downfall, it just needs to be unplugged when you're done using it.My overall experience with the Presto PopLite Hot Air Corn Popper has convinced me to check out other Presto products. What a great popper, Presto!Pros: Easy to Use, Easy to Clean, Saves MoneyCons: No on/off switchThe Bottom Line: This appliance is a must have. I would recommend this to anyone at all!


