1344902400
3.0
review/summary: Cuts well & attractive, but mostly plastic & expensive replacement part!review/text: PURCHASING OBJECTIVES:I have been using a manual can opener to save on counter space, but was now looking to save on time and energy. To my surprise, they have improved the design of can openers from the utilitarian one that sat on the kitchen counter when I was growing up.I also read that you can buy a replacement cutting assembly part for this opener, which in theory sounds like a good thing. However, read more below on what I later discovered.FIRST IMPRESSIONS:So it was the sleek contemporary look of the West Bend 77203 can opener caught my eye. The stainless-look is "in" these days. However, the body of this product is actually plastic. Depending on how it ages over time, that may be good or bad. On one hand, it doesn't show fingerprints like stainless steel, but then it won't last like stainless steel.When I opened the box, the first thing I noticed was its size. It is big! Well, if you read the details, it does say it can open tall cans, but I was still surprised at its size. However, having the flexibility to open tall cans is a benefit and it actually has a smaller footprint than traditional can openers. So it's thinner and taller, not bigger.USEFULNESS:As for what it's supposed to do, it is a really good can opener. It easily latches on to the edge of the can and completes cutting without having to hold down the lever. I just started using it and will update if anything changes in this respect. I already have a good knife sharpener, so I don't plan to use that feature. Same for bottle opener. Perhaps others will find those features beneficial.PLASTIC BODY AND PARTS:I think the main drawbacks are its plastic body and price. I think it's overpriced for plastic. I saw another brand with stainless steel, but it was rated poorly. Maybe we're paying for good looks.UPDATE: I just discovered that the cutting assembly is not chrome as I originally thought. It looks and feels like plastic, but I'm not positive what it is made of.REPLACEMENT CUTTING ASSEMBLY PART# AND COST:After recently spending hours trying to locate genuine replacement parts for my blender, I decided to be proactive and purchase a replacement cutting blade sooner than later. I found the West Bend can opener replacement part on their website. However, I was surprised that it costs over 60% of the can opener's price. So this may or may not be a real benefit. It depends on whether the body or cutting blade goes first. Perhaps you can find one at a cheaper price.In case you still want to order one, the replacement part item # is P95-38.DIFFERENT BOTTOM PIECE FROM PHOTO:I thought my opener didn't look quite like the photos and I finally realized it's because the bottom piece is different. In the photos, the bottom cylindrical base is shiny and looks like chrome. The bottom piece of my opener is the same matte plastic as the body. This is less attractive than the chrome-looking piece in the photo. Will try to post a photo later when I have more time, but hopefully you can picture what I'm trying to say.SUMMARY:This is the most attractive can opener I've found so far and it does a fine job opening cans. However, the plastic parts make me wonder how long this opener will last and why it costs so much.PROS:- Opens cans well- Attractive design- Tall, if you want to open tall cans- Smaller footprint than traditional can openersCONS:- Plastic body- Mostly plastic cutting assembly (note: the cutting blade is metal)- Expensive for plastic- Bottom piece of my opener is matte plastic like the body, not shiny chrome-looking as in the photosYOU DECIDE:- Replacement Cutting Assembly Item # P95-38 costs over 60% of the can opener price (at the time of this review). Hope this helps!


