1346976000
5.0
review/summary: Wow, this really works well!review/text: I should disclose that this is our 4th Bunn home coffee brewer in 30 years. At one time, we had 2 on the counter at the same time (lots of board meetings at our home). We tend to get 10-12 years out of them before they start to leak on the counter, and our last one made it 15 years.Just had to retire it this week. It was leaking all over the counter from the back. After 15 years, it's done it's job, and done it well!A friend of ours who was moving to Europe had bought a Bunn NHBB model from Amazon, and had never opened it, so he gave it to us before moving overseas (didn't want to adapt/convert the electric for Europe). It had sat on a shelf in our garage for a year, and I remembered it. What a great gift!!Our former Bunn makers all had the rectangular lid (last one had the valve-block stem sticking up out of the water reservoir). This new one has the swivel lid (much cuter). If it's like the other one, mineral buildup will let it drip in a few months for a few seconds if the lid is left open after the water is poured. No biggie. We fill ours with a separate water pitcher anyway.This newest one has a much stronger heater than the one we just retired. And the water tested hotter than our last one (could have been because the older one was 15 yrs old). And the reheat time was only about 7 minutes after making a full pot. Since it holds 2 full pots of water hot, you could make 2 pots and it'd be ready for a 3rd by the time you made the first two.If you don't understand how Bunns work, they have a built in water tank which automatically pre-heats two pots of water to brew temperature. When we pour a pot of cold water into the top, it is sent to the bottom of the heating tank which forces an equal amount of hot water out the top immediately. This results in a 3 minute brew cycle instead of 8 minute pot of coffee. And it means you can make 2 pots in a row without it having to reheat (if you have a pump pot or thermos to put the first pot into).Essential things we have learned about Bunn makers:1 - Use enough grounds, and grind them finer because you need to extract all the flavor from the coffee in less than 1/2 the time of conventional brewers. 1/2 cup grounds for 8-10 cups is the place to start.2 - Use Bunn filters. They are 1/2'' taller than the shorter bargain brand filters, which will cause the water to run over top of the filter and get grounds into the pot. We get Bunn filters at our local 'Blue-Mart' for a penny apiece ($1 box of 100).3 -Pour half the cold water and give it a full minute head start, and the coffee won't run over the top of filters into the pot.4- With Bunns there is no on/off switch involved with brewing. So, if you put a piece of duct tape over the 'vacation' switch (the switch low on the side) it cannot be easily switched off. That way when your friends are over, they won't turn your pot's heating element off thinking they are helping you. When you go on vacation, just unplug it...5 - Pump pots are handy devices to hold the coffee hot without burning it on a hotplate (even the built in one).6 - Realize the switch on the front of the unit just powers the hot-plate. We don't even bother if we are brewing enough to pour cups for everybody. We never hold it on the hot-plate anyway.Loving this new Bunn NHBB as it seems like Bunn is still making quality products. This one actually takes up a bit less counter space since they turned the retaining tank sidewise (not an issue for us).Hope this helps...


