1354060800
4.0
review/summary: Perfectly Holds A Half Gallon of Milkreview/text: My husband and I used to live in an area where we could purchase milk in glass bottles. It simply tastes better than milk stored in a plastic jug or a waxed cardboard carton and we have been missing it. After searching through Amazon, I bought the Bormioli. I have been using it for two days now and it is absolutely perfect for my needs: holds milk, seals tightly to keep out fridge odors, has a wide mouth for easy cleaning, made of glass.The top seals air tight with what feels like either a rubber or silicon gasket. I don't quite understand why other reviewers have had trouble using the lid mechanism (you hold onto the outside of the pitcher lid and turn the dial on the inside of the top to release or secure the seal. Believe me, it is not hard to do). Unlike run of the mill pitchers, you do have to take the lid off before pouring. It doesn't have an open segment in the lid for pouring (perhaps this is while some people are experience dripping). It easily fits on a fridge shelf set shorter than a half gallon carton, which is nice, because I have only one tall shelf and like to keep wine bottles, an ice tea pitcher, and other tall items there (which means I quickly run out of room). It perfectly holds a half gallon of milk.A few things you should keep in mind concerning your particular needs/usage.- It's noticeably heavier than a plastic pitcher. If you have trouble holding on to/carrying a gallon jug, this might be too heavy for you. I would imagine it would be unwieldy for children. Not an issue for us.- The pitcher is made of glass and thus can *not* be banged around on a counter top. Slam it down on a granite countertop and it will break. This is not an issue for us, as glass is what we were looking for.- The glass handle is a little short for its heft, but I imagine that is because if it were made any longer, it would run the risk of snapping. When it is full, I am careful to use two hands to lift it out of the fridge.We love it! It feels very sturdy for being made of glass (especially compared with the Luminarc glass pitcher I bought last summer that felt about as thick as the glass used to make a christmas ornament and which broke the very first time I washed it). I love the locking top. All in all, the only thing that could make it better were if it had a more substantial handle (hence the four stars instead of five). I'm about to purchase another two to hold our gallon of skim milk!


