1358985600
5.0
review/summary: Trash can fan!review/text: I had been looking around for a stainless steel trash can that was not too expensive yet big enough for my needs. Before purchasing the iTouchless, I was suffering with a stainless steel trash can that I purchased from COSTCO but I think it was meant for the office rather than the kitchen. The foot pedal was broken and all that was left was the metal bar for the pedal. It would often assault any passerby who wasn't paying attention and stub them in the toe or side of the foot. And when you pressed it, it would violently pop open the top and a horrible smelly wind would escape. The can was narrow and circular so the trash bags didn't fit quite right and it filled up in a matter of minutes on any given day. Because of the former crappy trash can, I took my time to find the right replacement. Come to think of it, I had been looking around for about 1-2 years. And finally - I found this one! When I found it on Amazon I looked at the other options and they were either too expensive, too small, too big, the style wasn't right, etc. I am not ashamed to admit that I was literally giddy and excited knowing that the iTouchless was on it's way after I hit the purchase button!!!When it arrived I was pleasantly surprised that it was a touchless trash can. I know - it's named "iTouchless" but when I ordered it for some reason, I missed that part!! LOL. Needless to say, this trash can has been working great and I am so happy I got it. Regular sized trash bags fit perfectly and I LOVE how it has a ring to keep the bag from slipping. The deodorizer appears to be working, I don't notice any nasty smells coming out of this bad boy. The infrared sensor is very responsive and opens on swipe. The batteries last about 2 months and I suggest purchasing the adapter if you have an outlet nearby. For us, we don't have an outlet near the trash can (older house built in the 60's) so batteries will have to suffice for now, it's really not a big deal to me.I've had this trash can since July and I don't have any complaints. In fact, I just ordered another one today for my recyclables.


