1358208000
5.0
review/summary: Fantastic First Day!review/text: I wanted a corded, handheld vacuum for quick cleaning of small areas. The handhelds I found locally were all cordless and too expensive considering their build quality. A search of online reviews and Amazon confirmed the legitimacy of my skepticism of the cordless models, and turned up this little beauty by Eureka. The price was $20 less than I expected and the reviews were promising, so I decided to give it a try.It arrived very quickly after ordering. I immediately unpacked it and found a very well-built, easy to use little vacuum. Having the on/off brush feature is awesome in a vacuum this size. It works beautifully on stair steps and risers; also on high traffic areas that you want to clean more often but don't necessarily want to drag your big vacuum out for all the time. The suction power is amazing. My 1100 watt Miele canister can't compete with this Eureka on stairs. Just testing it on a half-flight resulted in a shocking amount of hair and dust whirling into the dust cup. The dust cup with bag is very easy to remove. The bag is fairly heavy material and I couldn't get all the dirt out of it by shaking or brushing it into the garbage bag--but by putting the Miele on its 400 watt setting I gently vacuumed the dust cup debris into the Miele's throwaway bag. It's not entirely efficient to have to clean one vacuum with another vacuum, but the Eureka picks up SO much dirt and hair, and so easily and conveniently, I don't mind the extra step.The long cord is a wonderful feature for getting to a big area from a single outlet. The crevice tool is smartly stored in the handle, through the back of the machine. I can find only one thing to nitpick: the little plastic hook at the plug end of the cord doesn't easily grab onto onto another section of cord for storage. (After you've wound the cord around the housing). You have to lift one "loop" of cord a bit to slide the hook over it.I don't find the machine too heavy for my purposes. It's a bit loud (77db according to one video) but I'm not sure you can find a vacuum of this size and power that's quieter. Overall, I'm extremely pleased with this purchase! Thank you Amazon for making it a quick, reliable experience.


