1353283200
1.0
review/summary: A TRAGIC WASTEreview/text: This would have been a 5-star review based on how it performed originally, but like almost all of the other 1-star reviews, this machine had probably less than 10-15 minutes of cumlative use when the plastic union between the drive shaft and beater shaft stripped out. Now the powerful motor turns and not a thing happens. We only used it lightly (never to crush ice or the like) to make soups and sauces and only after the contents had been cooked to mush. It was not abused.I'm going to attempt to place a lentil-size bead of epoxy inside the white plastic coupler in the handle to fuze the shafts together and just maybe I will be able to milk a batch of hot sauce or a pan of soup out of it before this brand new-looking immersion blender goes to the landfill to meet its brothers and sisters. The name "Cuisinart" used to represent quality. (I paid hundreds for the Cuisinart food processor in my pantry and felt good about it.) Never again.It is worth noting that the device comes with a 3-year warranty. However it requires that you ship it off for repair at your expense and send another $10 for return shipping, not to mention your time retaining proof of purchase and boxing it, or gas transporting it to the post office... The cost of the return to the authorized repair shop easily exceeds the value of the machine even if the repair folks agree that the repair is covered by the warranty. To make use of the warranty would be to essentially buy it a second time with the same prospects of the little white plastic piece blowing out soon after its return. Fool me once... In my judgement the warranty is of no value at all.It is not a matter of "if" that plastic thing will strip out but "when". The motor is fast and powerful and the blade is going to catch something a little bit. (That is its job.) Then you will hear a few clicks and the blade will no longer be engaged with the motor.Before you buy it or before you keep and use it, just look at the cheap white plastic socket at the end of the driveshaft. Then go buy a quality appliance that will last for years.


