1351728000
4.0
review/summary: This SteamVac was destined for the return line...well almost...review/text: I ordered my SteamVan used from Amazon Warehouse Deals. The SteamVac arrived in about 3-4 days at the doorstep in the original box wrapped in plastic looking almost new so initially I was pleased. After opening and organizing all the parts I followed the quick instructions manual and noticed immediately that the control rods inside handle seemed loose and unhinged possibly broken. After continuing and completely assembling the SteamVac and loading the fluids then turning it on, I realized i had the same problem most were speaking of in the reviews: that the tank immediately began to leak! After dissasembly and starting over I realized i could not get the handle to "click" when pressing the trigger no matter what I did! Out of frustration the mechanic in me started to analyze what was happening..the control rods in the handle hook to clear plastic rods that press on a release valve that controls the fluid flow for the Vac. The problem was that the hooks on the control rods were not moving the valves. After some 14 hours of tinkering and opening the handle(one screw at the top) the problem was two-fold: The trigger button was not seated in a clip on the housing that it is supposed to snap into so it never would have worked!..and it's hit and miss so if your lucky and everything was assembled correctly at the factory you get the "click" if not your in the return line! After pressing the trigger button into the housing on the handle and a quick check the rods were moving properly, reassembly then everything worked just fine...wheeew! Now the Good...the Bad...and the Ugly:THE GOOD:The suction is strong..much stronger that its older models(glad I upgraded). For those wanting "heated" water relax. Running tap water as hot as you can stand will suffice as this vac will suck it up so fast the water shouldn't get cold at all. The brushes did a credible job in agitating the carpet even in the areas where the carpet was matted. Those areas require several passes to bring it back to acceptable. Using a cleaning solution is a personal choice. I liked the smell and job the Bissel did but any brand should do fine with this machine. The upholstery tools did a credible job on the stairs and other furniture and you can read my other comments on this tool in the next paragraphs. Overall a good machine with care should provide many years of service(my older model lasted a decade!. The carpets now look and feel clean again!THE BAD:The SteamVac feels cheap...there is plastic on EVERYTHING so you will need to be careful with it because the parts(example on/off button and handle release) could break easily if you press down too hard! Be especially careful with the recovery panel that slides down and the clunky connecting tube for the upholstery tools which could break or puncture easily. Also, you must make sure that the cleaning tank seats properly on top of the valve in the frame and the dirty water tank lid is closed tightly or you won't get proper suction. Remember this is not an industrial model..for that get a Rug Doctor but for general & occasional use it will work just fine and give you good results but you must take some time and do preventative cleaning/maintenance.THE UGLY:Hoover you should be asshamed for making such a cheaply made product! The handle/trigger rod assembly process is hit or miss..and the trigger/control rods on the Handle Assembly should be preassembled at the factory to work dependably 100% of the time! That's probabally the source of most of your returns with this product. Plastic..Plastic..Plastic everywhere!..the parts that are used the most should be metal or at least with a high impact plastic that can take abuse...i.e. the on/off buttons, and the connecting tubes/dirty water front tank panel, and the stupid clips that open out to release the dirty water tank are a recipe for disaster and akin to be broken if you aren't watching..I could go on but you get the picture! The converter assembly for the upholstery tools is a clunky mess to assemble and take apart..your engineers should have consulted with women that actually USE it! That assembly should plug the hose into the vac and go! Finally I miss the handle on the dirty water tank. It made it a sinch to carry and dispose of without getting my hands wet and dirty. Finally, you will need a light hand with this SteamVac people and the Bissel has its own set of problems. There are not many low cost alternatives out there so read your reviews and choose carefully...newer is not necessarily better with these machines. Good luck!


