1357171200
1.0
review/summary: Good Item, Horrendous Warranty Claimreview/text: The chopper works great if it doesn't burn out on you. The problems start when you need to make a warranty claim with Black and Decker. They ask you to send in the electrical plug of the chopper itself whenever you make a claim, and they also make you pay for the postage. They also tell you to use a trackable shipping method. I spent $2.80 shipping the plug of the item to them to make a warranty claim.They processed the claim and decided, without warning me in any way whatsoever, to send me a similar, but different (and worth noting, cheaper) item (http://www.amazon.com/Black-Decker-HC306-One-Touch-Electric/dp/B000I0DV6W) that is a 1.5 cup chopper as opposed to the 3 cup chopper I originally started with. When I called them about this, they told me they were out of stock of this 3 cup chopper and decided instead to send me the 1.5 cup chopper. Although I was disappointed with this I must admit that I like the style of the 1.5 cup chopper more. You only have to wash the cup and it's a closed container, so you don't have to worry about food flying onto the underside of the motor housing like in this model. If that was the end of the story, I would walk away, with the cheaper, smaller capacity, but easier to clean chopper.However, the NEW chopper they sent me came with a broken container and lid...broken enough to make it unusable. When I called and asked them why they sent me the wrong item and decided that I was okay with that wrong item, I told them about the broken container. It turns out that they can reship me the container, but they don't keep the lids in stock, so they would need to ship me the entire cheaper model again. Guess what that means? They want me to send back the plug of the broken, cheaper chopper that they sent me for my warranty claim that I haven't even used. They want me to spend another $2.80 on this worthless item.Anyways, the point of my post is to make sure that you're weary about their warranty. Yes, they'll fill it for you, but you'll have to jump through some hoops and you'll even have to pay quite a chunk of the purchase price to get the warranty. It should be illegal to make you pay to claim a warranty.Of my original purchase price of $20.93, I've spent an extra $2.80 on shipping and am being asked to spend an additional $2.80 or an additional 27% of my purchase price to make a warranty claim and to receive an item that is $13.66 on Amazon right now, as opposed to this chopper which is $19.93.


