1345161600
5.0
review/summary: Highly recommendedreview/text: This is my first glass pitcher, and I can honestly say I will never use a plastic pitcher again! Glass is way more versatile. I bought 2 of the 78 ounce pitchers primarily for making sun tea, but also use them regularly to store stock and even for making kimchi. Over a few months of heavy use (there's always at least one in my fridge), I'd like to address some of the concerns I was having before I bought them based on what I noticed from other reviews:When I first got it in the mail, I noticed a surprising lack of packaging. It would be easy to see how some people would have problems with it breaking in shipping. It also looked smaller than I was expecting, but don't ask me why.Since I'm not terribly familiar with ounces, I did a quick volume check and found it to be equivalent to a 2 Liter pitcher.I've never noticed any problems with the handle, whether I hold it with my palm against the inside or my knuckles. My husband has not mentioned having difficulties with it either.It's just fine in the dishwasher, even the plastic lid and rubber ring, which would have been a deal breaker for me. :) Not even a chip on the glass!It's heavy when it's empty and, logically, heavier when it's full, however I've not had difficulties with it being too heavy. Honestly, I like the sturdy feel as opposed to the flimsy feel of plastic pitchers.I don't have patience for complicated pouring procedures which it seemed many others were having to employ. I pour without thinking too hard about it and it doesn't spill. Any drips that do occasionally happen I attribute to operator not equipment. There seemed to be some confusion so I will clarify: you MUST take the lid off to pour; it's not that kind of lid.The airtight lid is an awesome feature. It's great for not making my fridge smell like chicken stock and the occasional fermenting cabbage. However, sometimes the rubber ring slips around and it needs to be readjusted to get the proper fit. If it's dripping, check the seal. And sometimes I do have a hard time twisting the plastic bar, which does feel a little flimsy, to get it open again.It fits conveniently in the fridge; more easily than our Brita pitcher.I've noticed no discoloration or lingering odors, which I had concerns about with the plastic lid.Some people mentioned being unable to use it with hot liquids. There is a paper in the packaging that mentions the specific range of temperature for thermal shock, and you'll need to keep that in mind if you want to use it for hot liquids. I usually temper the glass by filling it and letting it sit in a sink full of the hottest tap water. (Getting it fresh out of the dry cycle on the dishwasher is even better.) After about 5 minutes, I'll pour the water out and pour the hot liquid (usually stock in my case) in. The stock is still hotter than the glass so I let it sit a few minutes more. Then I'll start to add lukewarm water to the water in the sink and gradually lowering the temperature until the water is cold. Let it sit a few minutes longer until the glass is cold before putting it in the fridge. The challenge there is to move it through the temperature danger zone quickly without shocking the glass. The whole process takes 10-15 minutes, the hardest part being chilling it before putting it into the fridge.In conclusion, I'm extremely pleased with this purchase and would recommend it to friends and family.


