1357689600
5.0
review/summary: Perfect for 1-2 peoplereview/text: I bought this as a Christmas gift for my wife. I travel a lot and when I'm gone, she loves to cook grains ranging from oatmeal to polenta (or grits) to rice. She loves this gift! So that's one part of the review.The other part of the review is this: the unit is sleek and fairly small (as such things go) and looks great on the counter. We find it to be very easy to use, with no need ever to look at the instructions after the first try. We've even used the timer function to have grits cooked and ready to go for breakfast -- it worked successfully on the first try without looking at the directions, and the grits were cooked perfectly and finished exactly to the minute that we had set.The 3 cup size is small, which is a good thing if you are cooking for 1-3 people; it will ensure higher quality outcome for small amounts. Of course if you want more, then it will be too small. Note that "cup" here means their scoop, which is a little less than a standard "cup" it appears. Also note that most cookbooks such as Hensperger's (recommended,The Ultimate Rice Cooker Cookbook - Rev: 250 No-Fail Recipes for Pilafs, Risottos, Polenta, Chilis, Soups, Porridges, Puddings, and More, fro) assume a 5.5 cup or 10 cup model. However, recipes can be cut down and seem to work OK for the basic ones we've tried.The cooker is made in China, if you're wondering, but seems to be of typical Japanese quality. In particular, the cooking bowl is heavy and very study. We've noticed no odd odors or imperfections in any of the surfaces such as the bowl that would make us worry.And the end results taste great. Whether they are better than you could make in other means, such as cooking yourself over the stove ... that's hard to say. In some cases such as oatmeal, barley, and quinoa, I prefer the old fashioned approach. For rice, I prefer this cooker (and also prefer this cooker to our old, cheap on/off rice cooker). But in any case, it's worth it for the convenience.


