1357257600
5.0
review/summary: Zojirushi Thermal Carafe Coffee Makerreview/text: I was unhappy with the carafe of my present coffee maker and noticed that all coffee makers in my price range had similar glass carafes. I was especially unhappy with the handles that were basically a plastic ring around the lip of the carafe. Mine was loose and coffee continually spilled all over when aiming for the cup. That brought me to looking at metal carafes and a different handle setup on the carafe. This brought me to the Zojirushi as it was in my price range. I was also unhappy, in my old unit, in the part that held the filter holder. It was permanently attached to the unit, contained alot of coffee grounds, and was just about impossible to clean. I noticed that in the Zojirushi the part that holds the filter basket (not just the paper filter) is easily removable from the main unit and very easy to clean.I've only used the unit once. There are two annoyances, not major. 1. It is hard to see the water level as you are filling the coffee maker with water. This is especially so if you make less than 10 cups. If you make 10 cups there is a marker within the water container that shows the high level mark. 2. You need to make sure that when you put the carafe into the coffee maker to make coffee that you position it EXACTLY under the basket. There is no room for error. If you're not careful here coffee will go all over the place and not into the carafe. If you're careful you can feel when the carafe is placed correctly. If slightly off a few drops will drip into the carafe cover which is well-designed for that. If you are watching when the coffee starts brewing you can make a slight adjustment to the carafe position. If not the cover is designed with openings to catch the small amount that leaks. These openings also connect to an opening in the side of the top cover that accesses the carafe. Thus small leaks will eventually end up in the carafe anyway. A long way to say PAY ATTENTION WHEN PLACING THE CARAFE.I've had no trouble with rotating the top as other reviews have stated. Just don't over tighten it. Others have complained about a short electric cord on the unit. The cord on this unit is much longer than the cord on my old unit.The coffee was fine with the first and only use so far so can't say much else. I'm happy with the Zojirushi and think it's a good value for the price.EDIT:I've now used this coffee maker for awhile and upraded my rating from 4 to 5 stars. In the orginal review above I made a statement about having to exactly place the carafe in order to avoid spills as mentioned in other reviews. I was a bit careless today and was off by quite a bit. One of the beauties of this coffee maker is that the cap is simply designed to avoid spills if the carafe is slightly misplaced as long as the opening in the brew basket is over the depression in the carafe cap. There are openings in the cap that direct the coffee into the carafe if the carafe is not placed correctly. I noticed this right away and corrected the carafe placement so I don't know if a whole pot of coffee will end up in the carafe if this happens. I think it will. Anyway it's a good idea to check the carafe placement when you start brewing.I can now also add that it makes a good cup of coffee and the coffee retains it's temperature for the amount of time that we need, about 2 hours.Also, as I mentioned in the original review is that the way the handle fits on the carafe in my original coffee maker (poorly, loose) is what made me look for another. I am very pleased with the construction of Zojirushi's carafe.So now I can highly recommend this coffee maker.


