1354406400
3.0
review/summary: Not buying a fourth onereview/text: There are no shortage of reviews on this coffeemaker (over 3,000), so obviously it's popular. I won't bother listing its features, which have been thoroughly covered.I have owned 3 of these over the past several years and each one has died the same death. Between year 2 and 3 they all began a rapid decline in their ability to 'pump' the water from the resevoir over the coffee grounds. I don't know the cause, perhaps the heating element deteriorates and is at fault. But every one has gone from the dependable "groan - wheeze" sound of water being heated and dispensed over the grounds to a perpetual "gurgle-gurgle-gurgle' sound of water trying to be heated and moved, but failing. And subsequently over a couple weeks coffee making goes from being a 5 minute task, to 10 minutes... then 15... then....Obviously I like the design, which I why I bought a third of these moderately pricey machines. But, with #3 I was going to be smart and actually KEEP the receipt. And I did... and number 3 has been repeating the slow death gurgle the past few weeks. Unfortunately... just two weeks past the 3 year warranty period.And yes, in case you're wondering, I have done the self clean cycle with both vinegar and other products. Ironically, during the self clean cycle the water appears to pump properly, but it doesn't resolve the slow gurgle - no brewing problems.So now that number 3 has died the same death, I think it's time for me to look for an alternative. This is a mid-priced machine, and a 2-3 year life span for an inexpensive appliance isn't totally unreasonable... comes out to about $25 - $35 yearly. But, having 3 all do the same thing leaves me pretty convinced that if Cusinart hasn't fixed the problem over the past several years, #4 would probably just repeat the pattern. I've liked these machines while they've worked; and if you don't mind anticipating a 2-3 year lifespan for the price, I wouldn't discourage you from getting one. Just don't expect it to last 5 years.But if anyone needs a replacement carafe, I've now got 3 of them!!


