1355616000
4.0
review/summary: great for soups and saucesreview/text: I had had one too many batches of potato soup explode on me because I was too impatient to allow it to cool before putting it in my regular blender, and I thought this would be the perfect solution. I've had my Cuisinart SmartStick (in white) for about two years now, and I'm happy with it most of the time.I am an occasional user, not a heavy user, so bear that in mind as you read the rest of this review.I find the SmartStick very easy to operate and also fairly easy to clean. I do recommend separating the motor/handheld part from the shaft with the blades before attempting to wash.One thing I use this gadget for regularly is to blend powdered milk and yogurt starter into regular milk when I make my own yogurt. Stirring with a spoon leads to clumps, which are kind of gross to encounter in yogurt. Using the SmartStick makes the milk mixture have a perfect, smooth texture, and evenly distributes the yogurt starter so that all my little jars of yogurt finish at about the same time. (A hand mixer would probably also work for this but seems like more of a hassle to clean.)The SmartStick is great for potato soup, as well, although it helps if the potatoes are pretty well cooked and there's a reasonable amount of liquid. I love that I don't have to take my potato soup off the burner and let it cool before blending it. It also works for other sauces that you would want to puree (e.g. homemade enchilada sauce) without having to let cool first.The one reason I don't give this five stars is because it's not wonderful at handling squash and pumpkin. I prefer to make pumpkin and squash pie from scratch, starting with roasting the pumpkin or squash in the oven. I haven't found a great solution for mashing the pumpkin/squash yet (my potato masher doesn't really work for this, either). I end up with a lot of chunks when I try to puree squash or pumpkin, even after roasting for an hour to soften it up. (I usually do the pureeing with the pumpkin/squash and liquid ingredients -- e.g. eggs and condensed milk -- for the pie. I've taken to just putting it in my regular blender, which does a better job.) Sometimes these squash chunks impede the rotation of the blade, to the point where I'm afraid the motor is going to overheat and/or give out.At any rate, like I said, I'm an occasional user. Other than the squash issue, I haven't had any trouble with my SmartStick blender, nor have I felt any concern about plastic stripping. I've been quite happy with the performance, and the price was pretty good, too.


