1356393600
5.0
review/summary: A life (and back) saver!review/text: I cannot express in words how incredibly wonderful this product is! I had some lower-back issues a few years ago and knew that having a super-soft, $2,000 mattress didn't really help with that. For years, I had been really interested in getting a Tempur-Pedic mattress, but just couldn't get myself to spend $5,000 on one, so I kept an eye on them, hoping prices would drop at some point.Well, within the last year, I started having a strange pain whenever I spent more than 7 hours in bed. Since I'm a big sleeper, that was definitely a very negative thing for me. But I was giving in and getting up within 7 to 8 hours of sleep, otherwise it would feel like my ribcage was being crushed after a while and it would take me maybe 30 minutes to an hour sitting on a comfortable chair for the feeling to go away.I started getting pretty frustrated because I do like to sleep until I can no longer do it at least one day a week, and I could no longer do that. At that point, I went and checked the prices for Tempur-Pedic again and saw that their prices seemed to have lowered a bit, which made me wonder if that had anything to with their patent running out. This prompted me to check for generic similar things that might have come out recently. And that is when I ran into this magnificent mattress topper! For the price, it was definitely worth a shot. I called my mother and told her I planned on getting this as a last attempt to avoid the price tag of the mattress I wanted. She said I should just get the mattress, that this topper would probably be a waste or money. But, since I had read the reviews and they seemed pretty positive, I took a chance.Wow! I have to say this has become the best purchase I have made, possibly in my whole life! To give you an idea, this topper is so comfortable that once I put it on top of my bed, I decided to lay on it to see how it felt and I slept for 3 hours. Wow! While it is very soft, it still supports and hugs your body. And, for the first time in my life, I am doing something I had never done before, I'm sleeping on my back. The topper is so comfortable, you pretty much hit it and pass out in the same position most the time. And, another thing I had heard in mattress commercials and never believed in, is that people don't toss and turn in their sleep when they are comfortable. Wow, since I got this topper, I don't think I have moved in bed once during my sleep! And I used to be the kind of person who rolled all over the bed. And, of course, I can now sleep 12 hours or more and wake up with absolutely no pain at all, anywhere.The results were so amazing that I sent one to my mom. Wow, she now says this was the best discovery "we" made in the last 10 to 15 years. I do always remind her, though, that "SHE" said I should just get the mattress. :)Even more interesting was that in the summer, I like to sleep in my guest bedroom because it doesn't have the afternoon sun on it. I started sleeping there and after a week or so, I started having the ribcage pains again. By the way, this is a pillow-top, pretty much brand new mattress on the bed. I didn't think twice, went ahead and got a topper for that bed as well, this time the 4" one. Thankfully, I got it in 2 days with my Prime account and as soon as it arrived, it went straight to the bed. Wow, the 4" is even more amazing than the 2". I truly felt like I was on a cloud in heaven! To be honest, I am considering getting another 2" topper for my bed so I can place it on top of the other one and have the 4" effect, since it is now way past summer and I am still sleeping in the guest bedroom!One thing, though, keep in mind that since your body sinks into this topper, you may need to change your pillows. I went from sleeping with a bunch of pillows to sleeping with just one, and it's a pillow from the same manufacturer,Sleep Studio Sleep Joy ViscoFresh Memory Foam Advanced Contour Pillow. It is just perfect and cradles your head, at the perfect height for the way your body is cradled by the topper.I have since given a couple of these as gifts and recommended them to numerous people. Whenever I hear someone complaining about back pain, or mattress issues, I just have to jump in and give them the link to look at this here on Amazon. So, if you are considering getting an expensive mattress, I would recommend that you try this first. I mean, it's not that expensive, and you may find that it is all you need. One of these on top of a cheaper mattress will probably be more comfortable than most, if not all, mattresses you can buy under 2 to 3,000 bucks.Enjoy!


