1356134400
4.0
review/summary: They Got Most Of It Right...review/text: This is my third foray into some kind of toaster oven and I am still amazed that they just can't seem to get one of these things totally right. Every one I have owned has had some quirk, design flaw, or just something stupid about it that leaves you wondering if the people that designed it ever actually cooked something in it. In fact of all the small appliances I have read reviews on here on Amazon, toaster ovens seem to have the most diverse and critical of all...So far this model by Hamilton Beach I have found to be my favorite, but like every other one on the market, they still haven't gotten it all together. On the plus side this oven is handsome in my opinion, and should look nice in most kitchens. It's not the smallest model one can buy, but like just about anything you get for your kitchen, I believe that one should shoot for the highest capacity they can afford and have room for. My tests with it cooking the likes of things like french fries, egg rolls, pot stickers and other goodies are that it both toasts and bakes much more evenly than my previous models. (Yes it's small and gets hot very fast, so check your food often. I think some of the people that complain about it burning fail to note that it heats up to peak temperature much faster than a conventional oven). Still not perfect on the toast, but par for the course in my opinion. (Turn the dial up to really get it dark). The actual toaster part on this model is located on top, a very nice touch since making toast may very well be what its used for the most, and, toast usually makes the biggest mess in the way of crumbs inside the oven. A slide panel covers the slot when not in use, or when using the oven, which looks much nicer than looking inside of it all the time. A red illuminated "cancel" button on the front of the unit dispenses with having to manually raise the toast when you're feeling impatient. (Something added more recently I believe since a lot of the negative reviews talk about using the lever to raise the bread early, with no mention of the button). And lastly the toast slot is nice and wide making it easy to accommodate things like bagels and other fat things. Overall I find the performance of this oven to be above my former models and well worth the price they are asking.As for the...Not getting it just right part, this oven like all it seems has a couple of issues. One is that it has no timer on it. Even my cheaper models had one, but they evidently felt on this one you would love it so much you would want to stick close to it the whole time. Also, the toast slot on top is a nice touch, but there is a groove on the outside of it that easily collects crumbs and it is very hard to clean. Big miss on their part. And even though toaster oven doors don't usually latch, on mine I feel it could close tighter. Hamilton Beach was too cheap to give another 1/4 inch of clearance in the oven, so the rack inside hits up against the door preventing a good seal in my opinion. Something that other reviewers here have mentioned a lot is the force of the toast rising when the cancel button is used. (Not when you let it toast full term). It's true that there is a lot more thrust there than is probably necessary. But putting your hand above it when bringing it up manually does the job nicely of not seeing it fly across the room. One thing you do have to be careful with is making sure your bread, waffles and such that you toast are carefully placed on the narrow rack inside the toaster. There is a space in between the rack and the inside wall where your 'possibles could fall into, causing at the very least a lot of cuss words to be tossed about. Lastly, the toaster being on the top in this model unfortunately allows a lot of crumbs to fall through to the bottom of the oven. But putting the baking pan on the rack inside the oven does a bang up job at collecting them before it gets to be a real pain. In conclusion, although this oven joins the rest of the bunch at still having some aggravating points to it, it nonetheless seems to be a quality built model that seems to bake and toast very well. And as mentioned before, it even looks right nice. Personally I recommend it.. : )


