1350518400
5.0
review/summary: Grate scale.review/text: I bought this scale for 6 dollars and free shipping, it came within a week. Great packaging, and comes in a very durable cardboard box, one you could keep the scale in and still look classy. Anyway, the scale is about wallet size a little smaller, but still thick, and comes with an easy take on and off cover, which can be used as a tray. It is compact, and solid. I mean for six bucks, this is a grate deal. I realized it needed two aaa batteries, and lifted off the back cover, and bam there they were, just take out the safety, and cover on, hit the power button, and wow, a bright blue display lights up, very solid. I didnt buy any calibration weight but I busted out 5 nickels and with precision, weighed out to 5 grams each time. The configuration mechanism in this machine is solid. no wavering, and goes to the nearest 10th of a gram ,as I found out by putting a sixth nickel and it weighed an extra 5.1 grams, so I immediately thought that over 25 grams this machine sux, but then instead of now all 6 nickels weighing 30.1 grams, I removed the original nickel, and the amount still weighed, 25.1 grams.So I realized that it was the sixth nickel that weighed the extra .1 gram, the readout is very accurate, you dont feel like your getting snookered, I weighed a few things up to 250 grams, and seemed accurate enough. Me, personally, Im not weighing diamonds or intricate pieces of sand, so this scale is good enough for me, and have to give it a solid review. Love it!, and comes with a five year warranty, included in the nice box, is a certificate. remember 6 bucks, and free shipping, weigh stuff. gotta love amazon. oh yeah , and has an automatic shot off after 60 sec. For me Ive owned 50 and 60 dollar scales back in the day, and this is as good as any, I forget the names, I know one was Ashiba, and the other kind had a see thru blue casing. anyway, good stuff here. very happy..........and come to think of it after the fact the model is actually the ms 600, instead of the 500, but it makes no difference to me, the one I got is grate!


