1359676800
5.0
review/summary: This Baby Flat Gets It On. Not a lot of noise either.review/text: I read all the reviews before purchasing this unit and now that I havebeen using it. I can say, the bad reviews are not representative of myexperiences with the unit. This thing cooks. I mean, it maintains 50%in my house with a pellet stove (think real dry air) with no problems.My fingers where cracking my nose was hurting.. my face hurt. All fromthe dry air created in the process of heating cold air of 29 F to 76 F.My upstairs is 40 feet x 40 feet. Now that I have been using this thing my skinhas become soft again.I have been using Corn Huskers Lotion and it is doing it's job too.Corn Huskers and Bag Balm are staples out here. However, I was usingall this before and it was not keeping up. My skin was cracking. I hate it whenit does that. I mean if you touch something, like a shopping cart or a door knob,it is like getting an injection of whatever the last person had on their hands. YuckNo cracks now.ISSUE:If they wanted to improve the unit at all, I would suggestworking up a better low water switch. This switch can be a painwhen returning the fan unit to the base. You put the top on andthe safety switch, which is a floating post that pushes up intoa chamber where an indirect electrical switch (for safety) engagesto allow power to get to the fan unit. See, if the unit runs out ofwater, this switch will turn the power off to the unit.What am I talking about here? Why do I bring this up?The HCM-6009 works by keeping a woven filter material (HC-14) moistthrough a capillary action. That is to say, one side sits in a pool of waterand the water soaks up into the entire filter... kind of a spun sponge fiber construction.The air is PULLED through this filter by a squirrel cage type fan (Google it). So the airis sucked through the WET filter and in doing so, takes moisture with it.This is a very cool idea as it involves no heating or ultrasonics which both takeelectricity ($$$). Just the fan which is positioned under the adjustments on thetop of the unit. The air is cool and moist, but not to the point where there isa puddle on the floor or a wet wall next to the outlet. No way. Fear not.It is recommended that this filter be soaked each day or two for 10 minutes and I for oneagree with this. The filter can dry out (get hard) if you have to use well water withclay in it. I have that here. (no water in filter means no transfer of moisture to air)Don't get the wrong idea here, I live in a beautiful mountain environment nearthe Silicon valley, not far from Neil Young. However, we have wells here and themountain is made of clay. So, this ultra fine clay in the water can plug up the fibersof the filter and limit the capillary action which will lead to a dry filter.Just soak it each day for 10 minutes when you are feeding the cats andthe filter will work for a long time. I tried the Protec PC-1 cartridges. They make useof silver to kill any bacteria or mold. Using the silver means I should NOTlet the water flow down into the septic system. My system uses Chlorine soI probably don't even need the silver, but what the heck.The unit looks cool. The price for looking cool is that the water tanks, whichrequire refilling, here at least, 3 times a day, are not flat so to sit steady inthe sink when I fill them up. It is not a big deal though. The bottom of mysink is ALSO not flat. So I am not sure what a flat surface would do for me.If you look at the unit, you will see this semi circle on the top. Well those arehandles on the removable 1.5 gal tanks. As with all of these humidifier productsyou add the water on the bottom of the tank. This means you turn the tankover in your sink... see the problem? The cool semi circles are not a flat surface.Big deal. You will get the hang of it soon enough... like most things in life.This baby can put 9 gallons of water in the air per 24 hour period, if you want it to.The humidity sensor is working fine on mine too. It shuts off where I set it to shut offand on when the humidity falls below. Not a lot of noise either. I mean, Honeywellcan make some noisy air filters units. I keep mine on high most of the time, buton the medium position it about as loud as my tower computer fans.The motor seems strong with decent bearings. Time will tell here though.All and all it was a great buy. At this point, I would buy another if I had the need.Be careful with it as you would with anything you own and you should not haveany problems... or so it seems to me after the few weeks I have owned mine.Good luck and I hope this helps.JM


