1351123200
4.0
review/summary: Very warmreview/text: I bought this to use in a large basement while I am doing some wood refinishing upstairs. Using the furnace blows around the dust which I am trying to avoid. Didn't know if it would work well enough, but it does an adequate job. On the highest setting it will keep my large basement maybe 600 square feet?? comfortable. Not enough to wander around naked, but with jeans and a long shirt I am comfortable. I think this is pretty darn good for such a small unit. Two of them and naked might be possible. :) In a small room this unit would do wonders.The unit itself is a lot smaller than I thought it would be. The pictures make it look at least twice as big. It only goes up to the top of my shin and is smaller around than a volleyball. It is also quite attractive. I haven't read all the directions to use all the extras, and I haven't used the remote at all since I don't have batteries. For me just standing up to turn it on or off is just fine, but nice to have remote option if I want. The oscillation works but not a wide range, maybe 45 degrees or so. The 1hr, 2hr, 4hr timer to turn off works well. For me I have only used high & max heat since I bought it.Another reviewer mentioned a bad smell. I have to agree that for the first few days there is definitely a bad plastic smell and I actually noticed the basement getting a haze kind of like if you had a fire and the smoke backed into the room. The smell wasn't smoke though, but a plastic smell. As I have continued to use the unit I have noticed this smell and haze decrease with use. If you were super concerned, maybe run it in your garage for a few days to burn off this "new product" smell before bringing it inside. It certainly isn't pleasant, but since the smell is going away with a little use, I would still recommend this item for how well it heats, its attractiveness, size and many setting options.Oh yeah, the machine did trip my GFCI outlet when I turned it off once??? I have my entire entertainment system, exercise bike, laptop and other electronics plugged into the same outlet though. And my house was built in 1958, so it's got the old wiring. Pushing in the re-set button fixed that and it hasn't happened since.


