1360800000
5.0
review/summary: I'm quite pleased!review/text: There's already a ton of reviews out there for this thing, but I may as well add in my two cents worth. I used to have a bread maker, but I discovered that the texture is much better if you bake the bread in the oven, so I only ever used the dough cycle. Then I realized, if I'm only going to use the dough cycle, why don't I just get a stand mixer so that I have a more multi-purpose device taking up my tiny counter space? So, that's just what I did. I bought mine second-hand off of ebay, but it was in almost brand new condition. I've already tried it out, and I guess I'll just come right out and say it, I love this thing!First off, let's talk about performance. It's got a very nice strong motor, so long as you stick to the recommended speed settings. That means that you should only knead bread doughs on setting 2 and no higher! I tried some of the thickest wheat and pumpernickel bread doughs out there, and it handled it very well! I also have tried it on a pastry dough and many other breads, and it handled them all very easily on setting two. I also used it to whip some cream into butter, mix some seasonings into ground beef, beat eggs, cream butter, etc., and it performed nicely with all that too. There are really only two controls to the mixer: a lever that locks the tilt head into place, and the speed lever (read the manual and follow the speed setting guidelines!). I found it very simple and easy to use. As far as performance, there is only one flaw here as far as I can see though. There's an "easy removal" pin that hold the head to the base, and it has got a tendency to work itself loose if you're kneading a very heavy dough. It's rather stupidly designed, in my opinion. They really should've made it harder to remove. I mean, come on? How often are you going to need to remove the head anyway?! I somewhat fixed the problem by putting a thick rubber band over it. Other than that problem, though, it works great!Now, onto the design part of the mixer. Well, I find it very slick and smooth and aesthetically pleasing. Please be aware though, that if you buy a "silver metallic" colored one (like I did), it's just painted silver - it's not like a fancy chrome finish or anything. It's still pretty though. Also be aware that they are very heavy, which is good since it needs to be solid to be a heavy duty machine, but you should plan to set this out on your counter and never move it.Lastly, I should talk about the accessories that comes with it (and I was lucky enough to get all of them with my used mixer). First off, the three mixer attachments are a paddle (for general mixing jobs), a whisk (for beating eggs and cream) and a dough hook (for kneading bread). The paddle and dough hook are coated in some sort of rubberized finish, but the whisk is just pure metal. What sort of metal? Well, I'm not sure. I'm not sure it's proper stainless steel (the manual is vague on this) or even if it's dishwasher safe (I've been hand-washing mine to be on the safe side) but I'm sure the bowl is stainless steel. Speaking of the bowl, it's nicely and solidly constructed, and it is easy to remove from the mixer stand and place somewhere else (such as if you need to let dough rise somewhere warm). The last item to come with the mixer is the pouring shield. If you thought this thing would be an effective anti-splatter shield, it really isn't. There's a big open area that it doesn't cover, so it's not really an effective splatter shield. What it's supposed to be for is adding flour to something when you have the mixer running. It's decent at this, but the pouring spout isn't very heavily angled, so you'll still need to push the flour in with a spoon or something. I find that it's not that hard to just add the flour directly to the bowl myself. Another problem with it is that it just sits on top of the bowl very loosely, and can easily get knocked askew. My overall feeling is that this accessory is pretty worthless and if you didn't get one for some reason, you shouldn't waste your money buying one separately.Oh, and lastly, if you're having trouble with your mixer attachments hitting the bowl, then you need to adjust it (I had to adjust mine when I first got it). Here's the trick to doing it. Attach the paddle attachment, then place a dime in the bowl. Turn the screw at the base head a bit (read the manual for more detailed instructions on how to do this) to raise or lower the mixer attachment. Your goal is to get the paddle to the exact height where when you turn the mixer on to the "Stir" setting, it moves the dime about inch to inch with each rotation. When that happens, you have it at the perfect height!Well, overall, I think this mixer is an excellent choice for anyone who spends serious time in the kitchen, especially if you like to make bread. Even if I had paid full price for one new, I'd say it would definitely be worth the cost. Oh, and I'd also recommend you just buy this instead of wasting any money on a bread machine (unless you really want to have a totally automatic process) or a cheaper crappier brand of mixer. Just invest your money in a good one right from the start! Anyway, I'm quite pleased, so that's all I've got to say!


