1352764800
4.0
review/summary: Qutie powerful for a handheldreview/text: I've had this for about a year and a half, and so far I'm quite pleased. I bought this after reading all of the glowing reviews here on Amazon. For the most part, I'm quite happy with this vacuum. I like that it's adjustable so that both horizontal AND vertical surfaces can be vacuumed with the unit in standard, horizontal orientation. I like that the suction tube can be removed and used with standard vacuum accessories from larger vacuum cleaners (extension tubes, brush, crevice attachments). And I like that the beater bar/rotating brush can be turned on or off with the flick of the switch.It's a bit heavier than I expected, but it's not a big deal for me. It's a bit heavy for my wife, who is quite petite. However, she has no problem using it for a few minutes at a time.Another issue is that the exhaust vent, which is located on the back/bottom, can blow away whatever I'm trying to clean up. This is especially true when using the suction tube in hard to reach places. This can be corrected by rotating the unit so that the exhaust vent points in another direction, so it's not a big deal.What I use this for:- Quick clean ups (from spills and such)- Stairway- Window sills (with the brush attachment from my upright vacuum)- Inside bathroom and kitchen cabinets- Under my heavy, low, coffee table where my upright won't reach- Behind my entertainment unit (with the extension tubes from my upright vacuum)- Vacuuming up spiders and other critters in hard to reach places (with the extension tubes from my upright vacuum)It's a nice unit at a great price, and makes a great companion to a larger vacuum. For those who are young, urban, and live in small studio apartments, where storage is a premium, this can easily serve as the only vacuum.If you don't already have accessories from a larger unit, I would recommend investing in a few items. Extension tubes, brush attachment and crevice attachment will make the 71B far more versatile.


