1359676800
5.0
review/summary: Impossibru suction!review/text: I lived my 20's in my mom's basement. My mom used to get a cleaning lady once every two weeks. My mom finally decided to kick me out of the house a few months ago. It was probably for the better- I realized I was never going to get laid living in a basement and I had a good enough paying job at an IT company. Living rent free and not cleaning my room, ever, was great, but all great things must come to an end eventually.The room I started renting was nice. It was a master bedroom with it's own bath. I had a king size bed with a 60 inch TV at the foot of my bed. Life was good. I could watch copious amount of porn without the fear of my mom coming downstairs. However, living on my own, I quickly realized how much it sucks to clean. I contemplated getting that same cleaning lady to come to my room, but decided I was too frugal to do such a thing. The dust and the filth quickly started piling up. It got so bad that I used to go to bars after work just so I wouldn't have to come back to my dusty room until I got piss drunk. Out of pure desperation I started looking around for a small handheld vacuum that could pick up dust. Searching Amazon for a bit brought me to this little gem of a vac. It had 'best seller' listed next to it and had plenty of 5 start reviews. This was enough for me to proceed with the purchase. Let me tell you- this baby can suck. It sucks so good I have decided to call it Pamela. Pamela sucked it all up.....every little drop....errr dust particle. The front end (part with the brush) is good for flat surfaces such as tables and carpet. It also comes with a smaller piece which can be attached to the hose part of the vac to pick up smaller particles or if you need to go around corners/hard to reach places. I also suggest getting the accessories for cleaning things such as electronics. Attach the accessory and place it next to the vent of your laptop- it'll clean up dust particles from inside your computer which cause the cooling fan to get dirty and not work as efficiently, which in turn can cause your laptop to overheat. An overheated computer can then directly cause issues such as CPU performance to lag. We all know what low CPU means for a computer- choppy porn.Highly recommended product.


