1359244800
1.0
review/summary: Assembly is shoddy at best, fear of little plastic pieces in my juice! Also doesn't work very well..messy.review/text: Wow, I've used this machine for little over a week and I've found SO many problems with it!First there's a design flaw that might cause the machine to grind itself up! Let me explain.For those of you reading my review who has never owned a centrifugal juicer and don't know a how it might work, I think it'll help if I explain how this juicer works first before I attempt to explain the problems I've had with it. This juicer works like this. There's a base that houses the motor on the top of which there's this round knob thing (called the motor base in the manual). You stack the integrated pulp container (which is the shape of a donut or a bundt pan) on top, or rather, around the motor base. The pulp container does not spin since it sits around the motor base. Then you you align the metal mesh basket on top of the motor base which sits in the inner hole of the pulp container. To operate the machine, you put the lid on the pulp container, latch on the safety, and feed stuff down the chute on top of the lid. The basket has sharp grater teeth and two small blades in the middle. It spins with the motor base. Whatever you drop into the chute gets ground up by the spinning teeth. The heavier pulp gets flung to the side and into the pulp container, the small pieces of pulp gets filtered by the mesh basket and juice falls through the holes to the bottom and out through the juice nozzle. Now this is all pretty cool how it works except the parts are stacked on top of each other very loosely! There's some wobble/give to the position of the pulp container as well as the metal basket. This caused my unit to misalign during operation and parts started grinding up on each other.I've only had my juicer for 3 days and I have been putting it to heavy use juicing anything I can find: carrots, celery, citrus fruits, ginger (for ginger syrup). I even attempted sugarcane. I found out that the juicer juiced citrus fine, but juicing hard veggies, especially the sugarcane was scary. The hard fibers from the plants clogged up the mesh filter and every time I tried to push the pieces of sugarcane in, the machine made banging noises. I thought the plastic housing was cracking at the time but I think the banging came from pieces of pulp getting flung onto the housing of the machine. Nonetheless it was scary. After juicing about 3 inches of sugarcane, I took off the mesh filter basket to clean the fibers off of it and to empty the pulp container. I discovered that the inner rim of the plastic pulp container had a scrape mark around 1/4 of the circumference. It appeared during operation, the accumulated pulp offset the balance of the machine and the metal basket ended up scraping against the inner rim of the pulp container. The metal filter basket is not suppose to be touching the pulp basket at any point but some how mine did and little chunks of plastic were scraped off! I now fear getting burnt plastic powder in my juice.Other than this major hazardous flaw, the little pieces of pulp debris would fly out of the chute while I try to juice my veggies. You can prevent debris from flying every where by using the food pusher to block the opening but there's no way you would be able to plug the chute fast enough. I also found the juicer did not do a good job juicing overall. There were little pieces of fibrous grit in my juice, and was not happy with how there was still too much juice left in the pulp.Overall, this is just not a good system for pure, sanitary extraction, because you will get grit, flying pulp, and maybe even part of the machine, falling through the cracks and crevices between the stacking components. The filter basket as well as the plastic parts also seem very fragile . The filter basket itself is $45 to replace, not worth it for half the price of the device.I'm returning this unit and getting a more expensive one. Plastic parts not worth it.Update Feb 4, 2013:I continued to use this machine (despite the scraped plastic part since it only did that once) while I'm waiting for myOmega J8006 Nutrition Center Juicer - Black and Chrometo ship. I've realized I definitely don't like this machine AT all and definitely will return this thing for the following reasons:--It's loud. It sounds like you're running a hair dryer.--Compact?? Not really. It takes up the same space as a bread machine or a food processor.--Juice fountain? More like pulp geyser! It's super messy! If you're juicing little pieces of fruit that will fall through the chute, stuff will fly EVERYWHERE as soon as it lands on the spinning mesh basket. Yes you must have the machine running while dropping food in there. For example, I tried juicing strawberries, the berries bounced right out of the chute. The only way to prevent this is if you pack stuff into the chute first and then slowly push it down. That's way too much work and also impractical for small things like berries.--Depending how fast you put stuff down the chute, the machine might move itself because of the motor, causing you to spill juice everywhere.--Forget about juicing soft fruits. This machine will waste it all. I juiced an entire pineapple and ended up with 1 quart of juice and the pulp had the consistency of slurry! What a waste! Same with strawberries, wasted 2 containers of strawberries just to get 1 pint of juice. 8 pounds of oranges produced 2 quarts of juice and semi-dry pulp. Really a waste.--Too much foam in the juice, even more waste.--Clean up is a hassle because of all the mess. You have to rinse the lid, scrap out the pulp container, brush particles off of the mesh basket, wipe the base of the unit (which has an annoying hard to reach spot right under the spinning knob), AND wipe up your whole counter because stuff just flew everywhere. Sure you can put it all in the dishwasher but the pieces are big and top rack only so it'll take up the entire top rack.--The base unit gets really dirty and has that crevice under the spinning knob, but you cannot submerge or rinse or do anything to really clean except wiping it with a damp cloth since it houses the motor.Yeah, save yourselves the disappointment and get the Omega masticating juicer instead. From what I can tell, it's quieter, easier to clean, safer (no fast moving blades), doesn't fling stuff EVERYWHERE, juices leafy greens, makes sorbet, and comes with a 15 year warranty. I got my Omega on sale (not from Amazon) and it only costs about $150 more. The $150 can EASILY be saved from NOT having to buy extra produce because of less waste when you're juicing. I will update once I get my Omega what the difference is.


