1346803200
5.0
review/summary: Good Wx/AM/FM radio and alarm clock but it could be more user-friendlyreview/text: This radio certainly does everything the specs say -- Wx/AM/FM and alarm clock. I am quite pleased with it.If you haven't owned a weather radio with S.A.M.E. decoding yet, you will really like this feature. When you set it up properly, the radio will not alert -- and wake you up -- unless a weather alert (such as a severe thunderstorm watch or warning) applies to your specific county. This is really nice when your Wx station covers a large area and you value your sleep!In order to use the S.A.M.E. feature, you only need to look up the 6-digit code for your county, which can be found on the NOAA web site, and enter it into the WR300. It just takes a few minutes, and it could save your life!This radio also comes configured, by default, to ignore the weekly EAS tests and other things that cause most weather radios to alert and disturb your work or sleep. You can change these settings if you want to.The WR300 could be a little more user-friendly. It took me about ten minutes to get everything set up. Also, there does not seem to be a seek/scan feature for the AM/FM radio, so you have to tune to your stations manually. Fortunately it has several AM/FM presets. It was not immediately obvious to me that the volume (knob on right side) was muted. Also the icons for alarm and weather alert were confusing at first. There is an on/off switch on the right of the unit for enabling and disabling the alarm clock.Overall, this is exactly what you would expect from Midland -- a feature-packed product that works very well as long as you are willing to spend a few minutes learning to set it up. Keep that in mind if you buy it as a gift for someone who is "technically challenged." If my grandma needed a weather radio for her bedroom, I wouldn't be afraid to buy this for her; but I would be prepared to set it up and change the batteries once in a while so it didn't lose its configuration during a power outage.


