1351296000
5.0
review/summary: GREAT low-budget cookerreview/text: I bought this model a little over a year now and I have absolutely nothing to complain about. This is one of the cheapest Zojirushi fuzzy models and does what it's supposed to do really well: make GREAT rice.I'd like to address a few things that people mentioned in their reviews :1. The cup size is not the same as what I'm used to!Actually, this is only noticeable for people that are buying a rice cooker for the first time. I've read various "explanations" that it's a metric system cup measurement or a specific Japanese cup measurement.... Actually, the rice cup sizes are universal. I don't know how they came about, but I've used rice cookers my whole life and I know that regardless of brand, they're all the same.2. Is this big enough for my family?Depends. I personally eat about 1/4-1/2 cup of rice depending on what I'm making. To be safe, I always measure about 1/2 cup per person, and 3/4 cup for those people that tend to eat more. Seeing as that this has a 3 cup capacity, you can technically make rice for up to 6 people!3. My brown rice SUCKSNo. Just no. I personally buy good quality brown rice (Nishiki medium grain) and it turns out PERFECT and soft and sooo delicious I can't get enough. As long as you follow the instructions correctly and use the brown rice feature and water measurements, it should turn out perfectly. I debated between this model and the more expensive model with the GABA feature and honestly will never make the switch.4. Non-stick pot flakingThis is interesting because although my pot does have some scratches, it is definitely NOT flaking. I feel that this may be caused by either temperature shock or using the wrong utensils to scoop out the rice. Either way, it is easily replaceable on the zojirushi webpage for about $33 + shipping.5. ClockI LOVE the clock. I use it everyday to have my rice ready in the morning to take to work. Military time is used universally, and it easy to pick up if you haven't used it before (I personally have used it since I was little). Overall though, it's pretty easy to figure out even though the instructions aren't entirely clear.6. FunctionsI haven't made anything besides white, sushi, and brown rice but I'm going to start experimenting with beans since I eat beans almost as often as rice and I really would rather not buy a pressure cooker. However, I'm a bit skeptical about using strong aromatic foods, though I've heard that the aromas can be removed after one cooking cycle. Stronger aromas like garlic, however, I think it's best to have an extra rice cooker pot (just the insert) for it.All in all , this is a great investment. No more crusty rice at the bottom, no more water boiling over, and I don't need to worry about it while I'm making the rest of the food. It's perfect!!! I think anyone that eats rice needs to have one.


