1346025600
5.0
review/summary: I LOVE THIS LITTLE PRESTO 04820review/text: I really love this lil presto 04820 and am really pleased with it!Pro's:*Bigger than I thought it was going to be. About the size of a blender even tho it looks like it is the size of a coffee grinder from the pics.*Tall enough to put a large bowl underneath.*Tastefully designed looks. Just one sticker which you can remove and either keep totally blank or I put some cool Nascar stickers on it and customized it to look like some kinda more expensive custom mancave popper.... This would be fun to customize as a gift for your loved one in whichever kinda stickers you can get because the base is white and most stickers have white boarders....*Popped the corn in like a minute! Didnt leave any kernals in the popper. Does a HUGE bowlful!*The popcorn was really lite and pleasant to eat. The corn kernels had all the quality of movie corn but just no salt.*Packaged really well so should not have a shipping issue.Con's"*These corn kernals come flying out so be ready to have some runaways.*You will get a few unpopped kernels but no big deal.*If you use the butter melter on top which doubles as the measuring scoop for the corn it will prematurely crack and age so just use it for measuring the right amount of kernels and nuke the butter...TIPS:*With the cover off let this preheat 1 minute before you use it. Pour in the kernels and put the lid on it for a better popping experience.*Use a large bowl that is deep so that you do not get too much corn flying across the room.*As aforementioned do not use the butter melter but save the melting for the microwave.*Use "POPCORN SALT" because this popcorn has no oil and so the salt will not stick to it unless you butter it.*SAVE YOUR COOL XTRA LARGE MOVIE PLASTIC DRINK CONTAINERS! When TRON came out I mortgaged my home and bought four xtra large sodas because the cups are thick and really fun for movie night popcorn later! They are wide enough for your hand and deep enough for a good amount of corn.*Parm cheese that comes in the green shaker makes a great flavor as does garlic butter!!!For the money I have never been more pleased with a product! Cheers!


