1354838400
5.0
review/summary: Exactly what i needed!review/text: I don't really rate 5 star very often, but I have basically no complaints with the b&d; Brew n' goFirst I will discuss important things to know if your thinking about this item.-I'm a student, and early morning classes require some sort of caffeine for me, so I decided to get this brew n go. It brews one cup at a time, and only glasses about 6&#34; tall will fit into.-It's not rocket science, very simple put ground coffee in filter, water in the back, and hit the brew button. So simple, and only takes about 15-20 seconds to prep, and hit brew.Some things I really like about itPros:o Permafilter - really awesome high quality mesh filter that you simply dumps the grounds quick rinse, and throw it back in the machine.o Quickness: The brew process only takes about a minute, but It will slowly drip a little extra for about another minute, I normally just come back five minutes later, and grab it (very hot glass of coffee) and its always still very hot.o Quality: The coffee is very hot when done, taste delicious, I don't get any burnt coffee flavor, tastes greato Mug: I really like the free mug touch, its actually a pretty good mug. Its a metal mug, and keep coffee pretty warm for a good amount of time, my only complaint about the coffee machine is the lid to the mug just has a sipping hole with no ability to close the hole.o Price: As a college kid, this mug was so cheap it was definitely worth it, almost so cheap I thought if would be a very cheap machine, but its probably one of the best coffee machines, outside my espresso machine that I have owned.Cons:o The lid on the coffee mug has a hole just cut into it, which is fine, but when i walk to class the coffee will not stay really hot, as heat just escapes the top, also makes it really hard to walk with a full mug of Joe.o Only single serve, I knew this when i bought it, it was actually what i was looking for, but just wanted you guys to know it will not make a POT of coffee, but if you dont know that by now.. then your hopeless anywayMyths: I do a lot of shopping on Amazon, and take reviews seriously, heres a couple things i read, and hopefully ill clear them up for you.1) Pour too much coffee, and spills over the glass and makes a mess. (False)I don't know where to start here, almost laughable once i saw how the coffee machine works. You put the ground coffee in the permafilter, and water in the reservoir directly behind it. So it will brew as much water as you place in it. I laugh thinking of people just filling the reservoir to the top, and complaining it over flows. How I do it.. whatever glass I am brewing my coffee in, I fill it with water, and pour it in the brew n go, and whoa... MAGICALLY I have a exactly one full glass of coffee... whew!2) It continues to drip, and makes a little mess. (True)Yes it does drip for about 30 secs to a minute after its done, a very small mess, maybe 10 drops, I cleaned it up with a quick swipe of the towel, but once the glass looks full, give it another minute to guarantee no mess.3) Is the coffee hot if it brews so fast? (not really a myth, but a common question) (TRUE)The coffee is very hot, and the quality of the coffee is perfect, I have zero complaint about the quality of the Joe.Hope this helps, I had some concerns after reading certain reviews, but wow, this thing has really helped me focus in class, and its so easy to use, I can literally have an awesome cup of coffee to go in 2 minutes, as I head to class. If you need a single coffee server for a really great price, this is your MUST BUY!


