1360368000
2.0
review/summary: Cleans well, but too clunky to use. Want my Bissell ProHeat 2X backreview/text: I owned a Bissell ProHeat 2X steam cleaner for five years prior to buying this Hoover. I liked the Bissell a lot but since this Hoover got good reviews, I figured I'd try it when my Bissell finally gave up the ghost. I thought I might get an even better cleaner.Needless to say, I sorely, SORELY want a new Bissell ProHeat 2X again.The Hoover cleans very well, but you have to do much more monkeying around with it than with the Bissell. Here are some examples:The Hoover's hot water tank is designed such that you add detergent to the hot water directly. Conversely, the Bissell has a separate tank for detergent. Why is this important? Well, with the Hoover, if you haven't used up all of your hot water by the time you're done with your job, you either toss out the unused water+detergent mix (waste of liquid detergent) or keep it but use the now-cooled down water+detergent mix the next time you clean. With the Bissell, I could simply toss out any unused hot water without wasting expensive detergent.The Hoover dirty water reservoir is clumsier and more time-consuming to use than the Bissell ProHeat. With the Hoover, you have to flip two little levers on each the side of the reservoir AND lean the top part of the entire unit backwards almost as far as it can go before you can lift the tank out. The Bissell tank just lifts out regardless of whether the unit is in an upright or &#34;reclined&#34; position. Plus, the location of the hinge on the Hoover means that when you &#34;recline&#34; the upper half of the unit to empty the water tank, the upper half lays right on top of the hose and tools hanging on its other side! I have to constantly place the Hoover near the toilet or wall so that it can recline enough to empty the tank but not enough to crush down on the hose, etc. This gets VERY frustrating.Also, with the Hoover, it drips water as you carry the reservoir tank to your tub or sink. The Bissell tank didn't drip.The reservoir tank, after you empty it, does not close easily. You must line up the hinges on one side of the lid and make sure the front clip on the lid's other side comes down accurately against the plastic piece that holds it down. The BIssell lid unclasped and reclasped very easily.Most people are right-handed which means the unit is more to their right when they use it. The foot pedal to release the unit from its upright position to a &#34;reclined&#34; position, however, is on the right side of the base. It's therefore not as easy to reach when you want to &#34;recline&#34; the unit because it's on the side of the base farthest from you. They put the power button on the left of the base, and while this is easy for my right foot to reach to turn the unit on/off, I honestly use the power button much less than the release button, and it's frustrating always having to kick my foot around to reach that button. (Lefties, you can ignore that criticism since you probably clean with the unit more to your left side.)The tools and hoses on the Hoover are a tad more confusing to use and honestly feel more flimsy than the Bissell tools. Also, the hose and tools don't nest very well into the areas designated to hold them. I constantly have a few inches of unsecured hose ends that just wiggle around loosely as I'm using the unit instead of staying fastened well to the unit as the Bissell did. Even the hook they give you to hold the power cord could stand to be bigger; the power cord keeps falling out of it.The power cord is shorter than the Bissell. When you're accustomed to the range the Bissell gave and you move to the Hoover, you constantly get reminded (often with a cord jerk) that you must stop, relocate the plug, and continue where you didn't have to before.The indicator system to tell you when you're out of clean water is less desirable on the Hoover than with the Bissell. The Hoover asks you to listen for a &#34;noticeably&#34; high-pitched noise to tell you when the water is out. The Bissell has a clearly-visible spinning dial. I find myself thinking with the Hoover, &#34;Is that sound higher than it was before? I don't think so, but maybe? Hmmm...&#34; A dial is easier to use to confirm an empty tank.I used the Bissell ProHeat for years and honestly am thinking about selling this Hoover and going back to Bissell. It's not that the Hoover doesn't clean well. It DOES clean well. I'm guessing if no one ever used a Bissell and got this Hoover as their first cleaner, they would base their rankings on how well it cleans and less on comparing its design to other manufacturers. For me, however, I have the benefit of having used both, and my awe of the Hoover is much less due to that comparison.I really wanted to like this unit, but while I like how it cleans, I just can't rank it any higher than two stars because I get so aggravated putzing around with its inefficient and detergent-wasteful design.


