1360454400
5.0
review/summary: Reasonable price, reasonable espresso.review/text: I've had mine for a little over 2 years now. I use 7-9 times per week and it works as good now as when it was brand new. For the money it does the job. Rotate the front knob once to the right to heat water for espresso, when green light comes on it is ready to run. Rotate the knob once more to the right and the water is released.Then for steam, rotate front knob all the way to the left, wait for green light and the steamer is ready. For steam, rotate the top dial to open up the steam. (For the best steam quality, wait 2-3 minutes after green light for steam comes on. You can run right after green light but you should bleed off water before putting steam wand into coffee, but best results occur if you can wait for 3 three minutes!)The coffee grind holders can be disassembled for cleaning, to clean the machine above/inside where the coffee grind attaches, you empty old grinds, rinse under faucet, install, turn front knob to activate water, repeat until no more grinds are visible in grind filter basket, rinsing in between. You can also use q-tips or a wash rag to detail up inside the water release area where the grind holder screws on.The cup tray is removable as well as the stainless rack for cleaning.Last tip, if you leave the water reservoir installed, eventually the silicon gasket will deform and all water will leak out onto your counter top. I drain water after use, remove and rotate 180 degrees to store.I make chocolate latte espresso, Use the single size grind filter, fill up a 1/3 cup of espresso, add to 2/3 cup of steamed whole milk, add 1-2 tablespoons of chocolate syrup. You can add seedless raspberry jam to this for an extra treat, chocolate/raspberry.For another variation, add 1/4 teaspoon of cinnamon to the top of the pressed grind for a cinnamon flavor.Homemade chocolate syrup recipe:Mix together; 1.5 Cup Sugar, 1.0 Cup Cocoa, and a 1/8 teaspoon of salt.Boil 1 Cup Water; the add 1/3 cup to the dry to create a paste, then add 1/3 more incorporate well, then add final 1/3 hot water stirring well, until you no longer feel gritty sugar. If needed, heat in microwave 10 seconds at a time, stirring in between, repeating as needed until all is well dissolved.Then add 2 tsp. Vanilla.Keeps well in the fridge, in a tightly sealed glass container for up to two weeks.Let me also suggest this for your coffee, Cafe Bustelo, available in many local grocers in the coffee isle or in the international or hispanic section, very low price, or here on Amazon;http://www.amazon.com/Cafe-Bustelo-Coffee-Espresso-10-Ounce/dp/B001E95KLK


