1352851200
5.0
review/summary: Safe beyond 400 degreesreview/text: I've been looking for a dutch oven for a while now, and after reading a ton of reviews about and comparisons between Lodge Logic Color and a LC I decided the Lodge Logic was the better purchase. Lucky me, my husband AND my mom both ordered me one as an anniversary present (happy lack of communication for me =]) so now I have two. I got them both in the mail yesterday and threw together a quick batch of no knead bread. As I'm preheating the oven to 450 degrees F this morning alarms start going off in my head. I remember seeing somewhere that these lids aren't oven safe beyond 400 degrees. So I did a little research and found that it's specifically the knob that's not suitable for high temperatures.This was really confusing because both of my dutch ovens arrived with stainless steel knobs. What everyone was complaining about was plastic. I was going to play it safe and take the knob off anyway and stuff some aluminum foil in the hole so it didn't act as a little vent and order the LC knobs that everyone kept saying was the solution. But at the last minute I said screw it and put the knob back on.I just pulled my no knead bread out of the oven. The Dutch oven was in the oven at 450 without bread for 30 minutes, and another 30 with it. My knob didn't melt. Everything is fine here. Disaster averted. I'm not sure if Lodge is just now selling their dutch oven with stainless steel knobs instead of plastic but if yours arrived with a stainless steel knob I wouldn't waste my money replacing it with a LC knob (which I've read most people who received a plastic knob with their dutch ovens are doing) because it's still just a stainless steel knob. Obviously this is my opinion and my experience but if somebody else received their lodge Dutch expecting to have to replace the knob and was pretty confused about what everyone is talking about because it looked pretty stainless steel to you.. It's because it is. Make your own informed decision.As for how the lodge performed? Perfectly. If you want to compare the Lodge and the Le Creuset just google it. There are plenty of people who have done side by sides comparisons with more daunting recipes than bread and have all found the same thing- they perform identically. I'm very happy with this purchase and would recommend this product if you're in the market for a dutch oven.


