1358380800
1.0
review/summary: Not Sanitary. Do not buy!!! Please read this, you could be drinking bad juice!review/text: These juicers, and probably some others from Breville, are impossible to completely clean without disassembling parts that should not require disassembly. The problem is that juice seeps between the blade disc and the plastic part that it's attached to. This plastic piece (I'll call it a motor coupling) is the one that holds the two center cutting blades. The motor coupling has a raised center (where the two center blades are) that slots into the center of the metal blade disc.Unfortunately, where these two pieces meet is not a close tolerance fit, and therefore, liquids seep between the clearances and underneath the cutting disc.I discovered this problem after reading about it on other reviews. I went to check my juicer's parts, and sure enough, there was a film of old juice that had collected underneath the cutting disc and underneath the bottom of the strainer bowl.In order to clean these areas, you must remove the three metal screws that secure the cutting disc and strainer bowl to the plastic motor coupling. Even if you're willing to remove the three screws in order to separate all the parts after every juicing, the screws will likely wear out the plastic threads in the motor coupling in short time.This problem is not a manufacturer's defect that is isolated to only a few units. It is a design flaw that will affect every one of these compact juicers, and possibly other Brevilles, if they use the same type of strainer/blade assembly. Obviously, if the machine cannot be completely cleaned the way it was intended to be cleaned, then some areas will harbor bacteria and cause illness.Do your homework on any juicer that you consider buying. I have found that most are finnicky at best and some are simply unsafe!After returning the Breville, I bought an Omega (more expensive) centrifugal juicer, but it chewed up the bottom of the feed chute during the first use. I didn't realize that until after I had drank my juice that contained the plastic bits. I exchanged the Omega for another of the same model, but it did the same thing.I might make the switch to a masticating style juicer after my experiences with these centrifugals, but those don't perform well with larger produce. I might just give up on juicing all together.


