1359244800
5.0
review/summary: Outstanding Product!review/text: I purchased this humidifier with the main purpose of helping my breathing, secondly, to help lower my heating bill, and lastly, to insure my houseplants had an ample source of humidity when I needed the heat.This product has served all three purposes extremely well. Waking before buying this product resulted in dry aching sinuses, headaches from breathing dry air, and a hacking cough that scared me as the influenza epidemic was ravaging the country. I have a heat pump that works well when temps dive below freezing, however, the house is poorly insulated (it's a rental, so don't tell me to buy more insulation) and my monthly electric bill is painful. Heated air is dry, and before using this product, the humidity got as low as 18% according to one gauge. Now the air is sufficiently humidified (gauge consistently shows 40-50% humidity), and my electric bill is 10-15% lower than the previous winter. My houseplants continue to grow and flourish, so I can tell the inside humidity is more than sufficient.The performance of this product is as expected. Yes, I have to monitor and fill the reservoirs every day or two depending on the outside temperature. But that is not a chore. I simply start to lift the reservoir and if it is light, I fill it. I have not had the product long enough to judge the performance of the filter, but there are instructions to clean it, and I am expecting to do that when it begins to warm up outside and I clean the product for storage. My hope is that I can continue to use the same filter next year - however, if cleaning does not sufficient warrant using the filter, I will simply use the extra one I purchased from Amazon.The fan works well, and surprisingly, I can use the low setting to insure the inside humidity remains comfortable. The high setting I used at initial setup. I have never needed the medium fan speed, nonetheless, I expect some noise when the product is running, and since the low fan setting has been sufficient, it does not bother me.A feature I enjoy is the humidistat. This turns off the product when the inside humidity is at a certain level. I judge this with two (2) gauges, one analog, the other digital - and by how I feel breathing. The humidistat saves electricity, and the wear and tear on the product.I would recommend this product to someone who needs to maintain humidity at comfortable levels in their home, but wants to remain as frugal as possible about household maintenance.


