1353110400
1.0
review/summary: The will it work or won't it work coffee roulette system! Morning Fun!review/text: Keuring's Platinum Brewing System is the worst single-cup brewing system. This faulty model offers discerning coffee drinkers the frustration of restarting the brewing process multiple times for 'maybe' a single cup.I don't normally write reviews. The frustration with this year old device is maddening enough for me to alert the public that this product isn't worth the time or money.After about 9 months it would fill up and heat the water and not brew (i.e not suck up the hot water to drain through a needle that pours over the ground coffee in the k-cup). We cleaned it by following the instructions, using vinegar, and rerunning, etc. All these mechanics are internal to the unit. No access to anything to 'really' clean. The second use after cleaning it would not brew again. We called Keurig and they basically said the water has minerals that potentially clog the piping and draining system. Keurig recommended unplugging the device and to use a pin or bent paper clip to poke through the tiny 3 openings that are part of the draining needle.The process: Fill unit with water. Turn on the device. Let it heat until 'Ready to Brew'. Open k-cup placement unit. Pop k-cup into place. Close unit. Hit cup size to begin brewing. Hear the sound of the suction not working? No brewing? If yes, turn off device. Unplug unit. Open k-cup placement unit. Locate tiny needle with the opening. Insert bent paper clip to poke through openings on needle. (It's a bit of a reach. Tiny fingers help.) Close unit. Plug in unit. Turn on device. Let it work itself back to 'Ready to Brew'. Re-open k-cup placement unit (this triggers system to understand as if i just put in a new k-cup to enable 'brewing'). Hit cup size to begin brewing....and place your bets. You think it'll brew this time or not? Recently I'm at probably a 75% clip of brewing after the above steps. Otherwise, we repeat the process until it works. Re-Ante up!The long process works, but slightly ruins the taste and adds another 5 minutes to my morning routine before going to work! I need to do this process for every cup I brew. Sometimes multiple times. Each time it refills the reservoir a bit more with hot water. So, by the time you hit jackpot and it brews, the cup is filled more than normal and usually tastes a bit watered down.


