1349136000
2.0
review/summary: Good days at first, but many bad days after two monthsreview/text: My wife and I got this pressure cooker in July 2012, less than two and a half months ago. The machine is already failing on us.My first impression was fairly positive, with the one big black mark being in the area of documentation. The pressure cooker worked well and when the right amounts of water and food went in, the food came out perfect. (Documentation was unclear about the right amounts, however.) The unit was fairly easy to clean and cooked the meals fairly quickly. Overall, I was pretty satisfied.--Regarding the documentation: As far as I can tell, the manual is pretty accurate regarding what it says, and it is in clear English. However, when it comes to cooking directions, it's very limited regarding volumes. It gives you a fixed time and amount of water for cooking most any item, sometimes without regard for how much you're cooking.Take vegetables, for example. The vegetables are broken up by type, broccoli, potatos, leafy greens, etc. Different times are given for each of these categories and the time is pretty spot on, regardless of how much of that one thing you are cooking. However, the entire page says to use 1/2 cup of water for any of these, under the assumption that you are cooking (unspecified) fairly small amounts. It has taken a bit of experimentation in order not to burn my veggies, be they sweet potatoes, kale, or broccoli.Another example is in the area of grains, where it now assumes that everyone needs to cook massive amounts at one time -- two dry (precooked) cups, specifically, which is about 4 or more meals worth for one person. I eat that much in about a week and don't want it sitting around in the fridge the entire time.What makes this difficult is that it doesn't scale directly, for example:- 2 cups rice calls for 6 & 1/2 cups water (according to the manual)- 1 & 1/2 cups rice calls for 3 & 1/2 cups water (experimentation)- 1 cup rice calls for 2 cups water (experimentation)Having to work this out, wasn't a nightmare, but it was a hassle. I still haven't got the veggies completely worked out, though, and that has been a much bigger headache.--Of more recent concern, however, the machine no longer pressurizes every time. I've been monitoring it since the problem first occurred, and it seems like the orange stopper in the lid is sticking or something to that effect. I've tried thoroughly cleaning the lid assembly to no avail. This is easy to fix, when caught in time. Unfortunately, the result is that the food burns about half the time that I leave while cooking something, because the unit never seals and the water all boils off as a result.--The other issue I have is with pot. The internal cook-pot is coated with a non-stick material. As such, I've handled as I do all of my old teflon coated pans. We've used only wood/bamboo and nylon stirring and serving spoons. I've also been careful to use teflon-safe brushes to clean it. In spite of this, the pot has already picked up a number of small scratches in the bottom. I'm not sure if this is a result of the burning, if the non-stick coating is cheap, or if the rice I've been eating has small rocks hidden in it. In light of this, and that most non-stick coatings are toxic, I would absolutely NOT get a pressure-cooker with a non-stick cook-pot again.----In summary, I love having a pressure-cooker, but due to the pressurizing issues, short-lived non-stick pot, and poor documentation, I would absolutely NOT buy this pressure-cooker from Cuisinart again.


