1358812800
4.0
review/summary: Love this steamer - just a few cons listed below my review.review/text: My husband wanted to purchase the SteamFast because he has a backdrop he uses with his photographic studio and he was having difficulty getting the wrinkles out of the cloth. With the backdrop being bulky it was very difficult to manage with a traditional iron and his smaller handheld steamer did not produce enough steam. This SteamFast steamer proved to be the answer.I thought I'd give the SteamFast a try. I spent about a fourth less time steaming verses my traditional ironing. I expect my speed will improve with practice. I learned the hard way to be careful where I put my fingers. Steam burns so be very careful. The press pad that is very awkward to handle. It probably does what it is intended to do but I don't see myself using this again because I can't seem to find a way to hold onto it while holding a piece of clothing such as a sleeve and the steamer nozzle/head all at the same time. The removable fabric brush clamps onto the main head with plastic clips but it doesn't stay on once the unit heats up and the clips become warm. I would prefer to use the unit with the brush but don't think there's a way to keep it snapped onto the nozzle head. If anyone has any suggestions on how to keep the brush on I would like to hear from you. TWO HINTS: Extend the pole the full length and make sure the hose is stretched out and up with no slack. When the hose is slack the steam will stop and water condenses in the hose. Also, we have a water softener so I figured that with our water being treated I won't have to buy distilled water. When I drained the bottom part of the tank I noticed that there was a lot of mineral/calcium, sort of like small grains of sand so I will be using distilled water in the future.CON:1) Press pad hard to hold while holding on to a sleeve and holding on to the steam nozzle all at the same time.2) Removable fabric brush doesn't stay on the steamer nozzle/head when the plastic gets warm3) You really do need to use distilled water. I used soft water and still had mineral/calcium residue.


