1352332800
5.0
review/summary: A juicer for your average schlubreview/text: I am not a vegetarian. I am not a health nut. I won't follow a strict diet and I am lazy. The only way a juicer was going to become a staple in my life was by working around me. Breville gets a high five for managing to accomplish that.You can read other reviews that go through the great construction and design, they are spot on. The motor for the juicer is top rate; they did not mess around with it. It reminds me of Russell Crowe's character Maximus in Gladiator. Whatever I throw at it, the motor seems almost insulted that was all there was. I imagine it yelling "Are you not entertained?!" as it churns out carrot and apple juice. Indeed Mr. 800JEXL Juice Fountain Elite, I am entertained. Seriously folks if you're going to spend the money on a Breville juicer, spend the extra hundred bucks and buy the elite. You are paying a premium for the die-cast steel housing, but it's worth it.In the world of juicing there are usually 4 categories people look at:Fast JuicingEasy to CleanMaximum ExtractionLow OxidationFast Juicing: This juicer reigns supreme. Once everything is washed and cut up, this thing tears apart the produce in seconds.Easy to Clean: Relatively speaking this is pretty easy to disassemble and clean. If you want to throw everything in the dishwasher you should be able to do a quick rinse off and a once over scrub on the mesh basket in under 3 minutes. If you wash it by hand it can take 8-10 minutes to do a thorough job.Maximum Extraction: This juicer has pretty good extraction, not amazing. This is a little bit of a trade off; you get the speed but not the nuance that would experience from a press. You also need to be aware that the blades will dull and require replacing or you will suffer from inferior extraction, more below.Low Oxidation: This juicer does oxidate the liquid a little bit; again this is the tradeoff for speed. Whereas a juice press you could store in mason jars for a few days, I would recommend you consume this juice in the first 4-6 hours, it simply tastes the best in that window.For me personally, speed and ease of clean were the most important. I didn't mind juicing an extra carrot or apple because it meant I didn't have to deal with a $$Norwalk$$ type press. The short life window didn't bother me either. I like to juice up about 32oz worth in the morning, pour it into a Nalgene bottle, take it to work and drink it over ice.After about a week you'll notice your appetite has been reset to where you don't think about food as much. Be prepared to get some strange looks from your coworkers as they quizzically ask what the dark green or bright pink or dark red liquid is in your cup.The only con about this juicer and I'm not really sure this is something that can be fixed so I might be a little unfair here ... but I wish they would redesign the shredder and the blade. As it stands when these parts will inevitably become dull. You must spend $32 and buy the whole mesh basket, blade assembly as 1 piece. After having disassembled one I understand why. My hope is that a redesign will make it easier just to replace the shredder disk and center blades while allowing you to keep the basket thus reducing cost.


