1348876800
5.0
review/summary: Cast Iron is the BEST, and Lodge is an American company...win/win!review/text: I didn't want to wait for this 5 qt dutch oven to come in the mail, so I went to a local retailer and purchased it today. I expect it to perform excellently, as do all the other Lodge cast iron pieces I own and use on a regular basis: the 8" Skillet w/cover, 10 1/4" Skillet w/cover, the 12" Skillet w/cover; the 10 1/4" Round Griddle, the 20" x 10-7/16" Rectangular Griddle, the Square Grill Pan, the 3 qt Chicken Fryer, and the 7 qt Dutch Oven.I have had the 7 qt dutch oven for 3 years now, and use it often. It makes the BEST ever pot roast, with potatoes, carrots, onions, and celery in a slow oven (225 F for 3 1/2 hours). I only cook for one or two now, and the 7 qt is pretty big to deal with on a regular basis, so I purchased the 5 qt to make handling a little easier. I will be adding three drop biscuit pans, and two 2 qt bean pots in the near future.Why do I have so many Lodge Cast Iron pieces, and will certainly purchase more in the future? They can be used on the stove top and in the oven, and perform equally well with electric or gas appliances. They also can be used outside on the grill, or directly over a campfire. They retain heat evenly over the entire pan AND cover, and with proper use and care, they are naturally non-stick, and even if abused, they can be fixed and perform beautifully again...they are practically indestructible. Being black iron (as opposed to having the colored ceramic coating) they don't fade or chip, and retain their simple, classic beauty throughout their lifetime. They are simply the best, most versatile cookware, and are very reasonably priced--especially considering they will outlive me, and can be used and enjoyed by several generations to follow. I also like that Lodge is an American company, and the products are made in the U.S.A.The only "negatives" I can think of are: (1) the spikes on the inside of the lids--I'm not fond of them--they don't negatively impact the performance of the cookware, rather, they supposedly enhance it, I just don't like them.; (2) they are very heavy...they do, however, make handy and effective weapons, should the need arise (just sayin').


