1349568000
4.0
review/summary: depends on what you're looking forreview/text: I've got extensive experience with two previous versions of this machine: the original and the first Boss model. They both performed well under heavy use and I might not have needed the second if the mother of one of my co-workers had taught him how to change a bag. Over time the Mighty Mite has gotten bigger and more powerful, but not if I recall correctly, heavier. They've fixed the problems the hose caused by not being able to rotate, and spaced the wheels further apart so it doesn't tip over as easily. The handle still gets warm but not overly so, and considering that it is a lot more powerful now, that's not so bad. It was originally designed primarily to be used in conjunction with a sweeper, I'm sure - the lightness of the hose and wand thus a virtue - and not for use on carpets or to take the place of a whole house canister. But it appears they've tried to appeal to the market for those just wanting a cheap vac as well as a handy one.I got this one to replace a Shark/Euro-Pro bought by my parents several years ago in the same price range. That was Chinese-made, smaller tho heavier, had a good 9-10 amp ball-bearing motor, retractable cord and adjustable metal wand. It was fairly well designed and offered a reusable, washable bag as well as a HEPA filter. But it quickly transpired that the cord wanted to slip back in when hot, the hose wouldn't stay connected, and after a while kept tearing at the flex points. That could be fixed, but only at the expense of several inches of length, and it was shorter to begin with. The wand was great for floors but unwieldly in any other application. The final straw came when the clumsy apparatus holding the bag in place broke. I bring all this up because the competitors to the Mighty Mite made by Hoover and Bissell look to me to me to be made by the same outfit and except for the bag arrangement largely the same. Maybe they've fixed all the problems, but despite being $10 cheaper I didn't trust them, and I understand getting bags is difficult, too. My parents, who already have an upright, will appreciate this one's lightness and reach, its simplicity, and that it is "Hecho in Mexico." BTW, I wouldn't even consider a bagless.


