1345852800
4.0
review/summary: Great coffee - tips to getting the bestreview/text: I purchased my Zojirushi about 3 years ago and immediately noticed several dumb design errors. But given that I had several deal-breaker requirements and this one seemed like the best fit, I determined to find work-arounds, and they are all pretty easy. Once figured out, this coffee maker does an incredible job... coming from someone who is very hard to please when it comes to coffee.Stainless carafe holds heat very well when you 'start out with hot coffee'. This qualifier is important because getting to that hot coffee takes making two changes to your morning routine. First, run tap hot water into the carafe and rinse a couple of times and then let the hot water sit in it for a minute. This warms up the pot about 40 degrees which means the coffee doesn't have to do it [or conversely, the pot doesn't cool down your coffee]. It's not rocket science [actually, it's physics]... if the pot starts out cold it will cool your coffee down quickly.Second, fill the reservoir with hot water, not cold. Stop thinking Mr Coffee. If this unit adds 100 degrees to the water but you are starting with 60 degree water, that means it will not be the best brew temperature. Plus, the internal hose passes through the cold water tank so the unheated tank water cools it down even further. But, when you start with 100 degree water in the reservoir, your water brew temp will be about 175 by the time it sprays.As for the top, yes... it's a nuisance. But it works, doesn't have springs and valves that go bad like some others, and if you grip the top with your whole hand instead of a couple of fingers, it unscrews pretty well. I've seen better designs, but there's nothing really to go wrong with it.Yes, check the location of the pot before you hit the start button. If you shoved it in crooked and didn't bother to even glance at it, you will have a mess. But doesn't the same thing hold true for most things? Don't expect your appliances to cover your butt because you couldn't be bothered with wasting a whole half second to look at it and realize you had the pot in cockeyed. If you expect your coffee maker to know and make adjustments because you aren't intelligent enough to place a pot on the platform, you deserve to pay 8 times as much for your next pot.I have no idea why they made the filter the size they did, as it's about a size 3, not the 2 or 4 that you can get in the supermarket. So get the size 4 and fold over a half inch on the bottom of the cone and stick it in the basket. It takes all of 3 seconds and it works like a charm.Here's a very nice tip on cleaning the pot or any stainless pot that looks like it's got a coat of crummy varnish on the inside after a year. Add a half cup of ammonia to the pot at night, a couple of drops of dish dtg, and fill with water. Let stand overnight. It will be as bright and shiny as the day you got it, no scrubbing required. The ammonia eats the coffee stain and doesn't do a thing to the stainless.Bottom line, get the pot. It has shortcomings, but it's long on making a really good pot of coffee and keeping it hot if you just give it just a few seconds of your attention. In my book, that's not asking all that much.


