1357430400
1.0
review/summary: Never buying Cuisinart again!review/text: My husband and I love coffee and both have between 1 to 3 cups per day. That said, we happened to be visiting his cousin about three years ago and fell in love with her Cuisinart DCC-2000 Coffee-on-Demand 12-Cup Programmable Coffeemaker. We just loved the idea of not having a pot that sat on a burner and eventually scorched the coffee but rather was available fresh and hot with the press of a lever. Sold, we returned home and purchased the coffee maker. Within two months, it was dead; just quit working. We think the issue was a design flaw: when we raised the lid of the maker, condensation that had gathered from brewing ran down the back of the unit, wetting where the cord entered the machine. We're pretty sure that this design flaw (hello, shouldn't the cord be better protected??) created a short in the machine, rendering it useless. Cuisinart was great, and sent us a replacement. All we had to do was cut off the cord (strange, I know) and return it to them, and they sent us another unit.The replacement arrived and we began using it. Then within six months, THE SAME THING HAPPENED!!!! Really?!? We were really upset and ,once again, contacted Cuisinart. They were great, and Pollyanna's that we are, we took another machine from them. This time it was the DCC-1200 Brew Central 12-Cup Programmable Coffeemaker. We figured that maybe, just maybe, it was that other model with it's design flaw, and so since Cuisinart has such a great reputation and customer service, a different model might do the trick.A year and a half went by without any issues, which we attributed to two things: (1) our theory about the different model was correct and (2) the new model had a small protective covering over the cord at the back of the unit so that the condensation (that STILL ran down the back each and every time we opened the lid and which we had gotten into the habit of catching with a dish towel EVERY time - how sad is that?) wouldn't short the unit. BTW - we noticed that cord covering as soon as we took it out of the box and chuckled because it looked like Cuisinart had finally noticed and fixed their design flaw - silly us!Just last week, the darned thing stopped working FOR A THIRD TIME!!! This time, we aren't contacting Cuisinart. Why? Because after three machines, we have decided that this brand is just not the brand for us. We'd like to own a machine for a long time that works without issues and us wondering when it will quit working. So we are out of a machine until we can find one that is well-reviewed enough to tempt us to purchase it!Long story short: Buyer beware - don't buy Cuisinart!!!


