1357862400
4.0
review/summary: A good choice for my needs!review/text: I needed a carpet cleaner for area rugs in upstairs bedrooms, and wall-to-wall carpeting in a basement family room. I still use a professional cleaner and his truck-mounted equipment for the thick carpet in my ground floor great room.The Hoover arrived in good shape, thanks to really careful packaging (triple boxed) by Amazon. Assembly wasn't too hard, but would have been easier and quicker if the &#34;quick start&#34; instructions were clearer. The illustrations were simply much too small to be helpful, and the owners manual is even worse in that regard. Have a magnifying glass handy when you start!I originally attached the hose as instructed, but later took it off and stored it in a waterproof bag. It is just too cumbersome, and is constantly coming loose. A lot of trouble for an accessory that is only useful when using the upholstery and step cleaners. It's not like a user is going to quickly change from cleaning carpets to cleaning steps or furniture - the changeover is not that easy. Also, the solution tank will leak from its vents if the handle is lowered while it is full. One must first install the hose and then attach the solution tank - a pain to switch back and forth from.The instructions directed me to fill the cap of the solution tank to the line with cleaning solution, but didn't specify which line (there are two, and they meant the upper line). Also, I was told to fill the tank to the line with hot water, but that line was almost invisible. I simply filled the cap to the brim, and the tank almost to the top, leaving just enough room for the cleaning solution - worked fine, with no hassle. Shake the tank gently to mix the solution and you won't be bothered by foaming.The Hoover cleaned two area rugs, plus the wall-to-wall carpet in the basement, plus two carpet foot wipers with the 16 oz. bottle they included, and I used Rug Doctor cleaning solution for the third area rug. Both solutions worked equally well, but I plan to try Simple Green the next time. Some people prefer to use white vinegar or ammonia solutions, but I can't tolerate the odors of those remedies.Overall, the Hoover cleaned my carpets fully as well as the Rug Doctor did, and was a lot easier to handle. My steps seem to be getting steeper as I get older, and the Rug Doctor heavier. The Hoover was a snap for my senior muscles to carry up and down my stairs! I would rate the Hoover as just a little harder to use than a vacuum cleaner, but much more powerful. Cat hairs that the vacuum cleaner left were picked up in quantities that really surprised me!I haven't tried the hose and attachments yet, and probably won't use them until Spring. When I do, I'll get back to this review and update it.Meanwhile, I can recommend this cleaner to anyone interested, with the small reservations I gave above. It is much better than the Bissell that I tried back in 2006, and wrote a review on if anyone is interested.


