1350518400
2.0
review/summary: Do your due diligence, pleasereview/text: These coffee brewers are marvelous. The concept of being able to brew a cup or cups of coffee in less than a minute from a machine that is always on and ready is beautiful for coffee drinkers, tea drinkers, and hot chocolate drinkers. However, these neat machines with modern styling are prone to early failures. The nature of the failures are based on the design, not the quality of the parts, not the assembly, and not the users. Just fundamental problems with handling water and air. The two aren't mixed but air is used to move water. Air pumps don't like water, water pumps don't like air. These machines can seem broken when the problem is often air locks or blockages.The tank filter is dirty, the tank screen is dirty, the cup puncture parts are dirty are some of these issues. Sometimes, if the machine functions long enough there are scaling problems from calcium deposits on the metal parts, usually the heating unit. Most coffee parts need cleaning with vinegar, routinely. Dirt or minerals in the water clogging filter screens, pumps, heaters are expected, but usually, for most of us, those problems are apparent in the second or third year of use.As a potential buyer you rely on reviews, like mine, to advise you on practical problems with things you buy. Take a minute and go to YouTube and search on Keurig repair, notice the number of videos presented on fixing your coffee pot. Notice that repairs are often needed within the first twelve months (12 months). Do you expect to have problems with a coffee maker in the first year? Probably not.Call Keurig when you have a problem and those wonderful people will send you a new one, many time even if your machine is out of warranty. They ask for the serial number and the date you purchased. They may ask you to send a small part back to them. Days later you have a brand new machine. Who could ask for better service than that, you ask. Answer, no one could ask for better service. In my opinion the service is the only thing propping up Keurig. They will replace the machine, free, and quickly. They will help you troubleshoot. They are nice people doing a good job.Never the less, the machine had design problems. Small pumps get wet because of the lack of check valves, small parts get clogged with dirty water. Air blocks occur easily when filling the machine or adding water. Carbon filters become clogged. The machine is not designed for servicing. You can take one apart and many owners do. They make repairs to their machine because they love the way it works, when it works. Look at the videos on YouTube, read the Google results for a Keurig repair search, talk to your friends about their experience. Do all of that before you buy.Now, listen to me carefully. I have owned five of these machines. I bought the first one as a dare. I couldn't find the coffee cups in stores when I bought - I had to go online to buy them. I love the damn thing and I love the things it makes for me, soup, hot chocolate, tea, instant oatmeal, and coffee. It looks good, it makes little motor sounds and waterfall noise while it works. It is like a small robot friend that makes me happy all day with wonderful service. And so you can understand that when it doesn't work, for whatever reason, I get into a foul mood and think evil thoughts about the product design team. I want them to come to my house and visit with me while I smack their knuckles with a ruler. I want to take them out to my garden shed where, above the yard chemicals, the yard tools, on their own dedicated shelf I have lined up four models of Keurig and one other brand. I had hope the other brand would be better, no so much.Please fix these minor problems and produce the perfect coffee maker, I know you can do it!


