1359849600
4.0
review/summary: Makes great espresso, but it has some issues that make it less conveient than it could bereview/text: This baby makes a great cup of espresso. However, to get a great cup of espresso, there are a few RULES you MUST follow:-- First, you MUST tighten the handle REALLY well. I mean REALLY well.The only way I can get this tight enough is to literally turn the machine around so it faces away from me, bear hug it, hold it with one and and crank it tight with the other hand. There is no other way I can get it tight enough. If I do NOT tighten it this way, I end up with a far less superior cup of espresso. If I use pods, I end up with a soggy pod and little crema. If I use ground espresso, I end up a pool of soopy grounds, and little crema. Now that I have gotten used to the process, it doesn't bother me much. However - if i had known this before i bought it, I probably would have chosen a different machine. If you want to just leave it sitting nicely on the counter and not bear hug your espresso machine every time you brew a cup, you may want to look at other options. To make a great espresso, this machine requires a "hands on" approach.-- You MUST buy a good metal tamper to go with this if you plan to use ground espresso. The plastic one attached is junk.-- Regarding soupy grounds. Other reviewers have complained about soupy grounds and not getting a hard puck after brewing. See above -- they are not tamping their grounds enough, and not cranking the handle so it's tight enough. If you tamp the heck out of the grounds and crank that handle tight, you will get a beautiful dark rich shot with a beautiful layer of crema. Every single time - but only if you follow the the rules --TAMP WELL AND GET THAT HANDLE REALLY REALLY TIGHT.-- Pods vs. ground. I have only used Lavazza pods, but both ground and pods make delicious espresso, so long as you follow the rules - tamp & tighten.-- Steamer -- you definitely need a short pitcher to accommodate the short wand.-- Other PROs = small footprint, large water capacity, quick heat up (especially if you put it on steam first)-- Other NEGs = have to hold the cup while it brews or else it will vibrate out from under the spoutIn summary - this is not as convenient as I would have hoped, with the turning, bearhugging, and crazy cranking of the handle every time. Honestly, I would prefer to just heat it up, turn the handle without bearhugging it, and brew a shot. But, it's not enough of an inconvenience for me to return it. And, for the price, it makes an amazing espresso. So -- weigh the pros & cons and decide if bearhugging your machine every day is enough of a turnoff to get another machine. I swear -- I cannot get a great cup without doing the bearhug.


