1356048000
4.0
review/summary: How else can you hard boil an egg in the microwave?review/text: I purchased one of these for the office I worked in many years ago. It was an instant hit. It's a great way to have a warm, high protein breakfast at your desk. I liked it so much so that I bought one for myself, because it is easier to do this than the water boiling method. It's great for nights where I make a fancy salad for dinner (spinach, goat cheese, craisins, roasted chicken, beets, walnuts, hard boiled egg). I don't have to worry about leaving the eggs on too long. I can set these in the microwave and let it cook and leave them there to rest until I am ready to peel and slice. Another co-worker bought one too. His kid loves HB eggs and this was a very easy way to make them on demand for an impatient toddler.It is small, roughly 6" high and 5" in diameter and egg shaped. There is a removable tray that the eggs sit in. To use, you fill up the Egg Boiler with water to the indicated line. You need to experiment with the times a bit to get it right and it will depend on your microwave's wattage how long for soft, medium,and hard boiled. You can expect it to take around 6-8 minutes with some wait time after. It does get VERY hot. You need a pot holder to remove it from the microwave. And just like boiling eggs in a pot, you need to rinse with cold water before attempting to peel.This gets 4 stars for the occasional EGG-PLOSION you have to deal with. It's a lower probability (black swan?) event, but it does happen. And when it does, boooooo! It's a huge mess! I am not sure what causes the egg to explode. I don't think it's a defect in the Microwave Egg Boiler, but something to do with the egg. Regardless, top of the Microwave Egg Boiler generally blows off and you are left to clean up bits of cooked egg all over your microwave. You have to pull out the glass tray, and wipe down the whole microwave. It's an unpleasant chore.That said, in some scenarios (dorm, work, busy home etc), this is a great solution. Just be wary of the EGG-PLOSION. If you use this, it will happen to you eventually. It's just a matter of when.Thanks for taking the time to read my review, and I hope you found it helpful in making a purchase decision.


