1359331200
5.0
review/summary: Great starter juicerreview/text: After doing a fair amount of research on the health benefits of juicing, I was in the market for a juicer. I didn't want to shell out a couple hundred bucks for one though because I didn't know if this would just be a fad for me or something permanent. So, after reading a lot of reviews, I purchased this one on Amazon.com.The Breville BJE200XL is an awesome juicer for the money. I love it! Dropping in fruits and veggies and watching them get annihilated by the blade is awesome! Plus, the juice that comes out is tasty and healthy. I read a few things written in other reviews that after using this juicer for a few weeks now I think are completely false. Here's a few things I'd like to point out:- It does NOT take long to clean. I logged this today. My alarm went off at 7am today. At 7:20am I had already juiced a beet, carrot, apple, and ginger, bottled it to take to work, cleaned out every part of the machine THOROUGHLY, and put it in the dry rack before hopping in the shower to get ready for work. Of that 20 minutes, 10 were spent washing fruit/veg and juicing and the other 10 were spent cleaning the machine and wiping down the countertop. Cleanup could probably be faster than 10 minutes but I'm really thorough.- It does NOT make a huge mess. The juicer comes with a little plunger thingy that you use to push the fruits/veggies into the blade. If you keep that in there, you wont make much of a mess besides maybe a little fiber or spray flying out of the top of the juicer. The thing spins so fast that it sort of creates a wind tunnel and sometimes little fibers blow around and out the top. I've found that tapping the plunger thingy a few times to make sure the blade area is clear helps to prevent this.- One review went on and on about not being able to clean it fully and it being a health risk. That is complete and utter BS and the reviewer is likely a germaphobe. The scrub brush that they give you works great to get all the pulp outta there. Plus, if by some reason there is anything left behind, you're washing with hot water and anti-bacterial soap which kills anything in there anyways. I'm telling you, there is nothing to fear with this juicer as far as health/food safety is concerned.- The spigot works just fine. I don't know if maybe I got a newer version of this juicer because a few reviewers stated that the spigot didn't line up well and juice splattered on the counter. This is not the case with my Breville BJE200XL. Even the 1st time I used it when I didn't see the notch to line up the lid to the cup correctly I didn't have any spray on the counter. I didn't have to prop the cup up on anything. It fits nice and snug.The above comments are all made after a good 3 weeks of consistent juicing. I love this damn thing and it's providing some change in my lifestyle for the better.Pros:Nice price if you want to get started juicing without laying out a couple hundred bucksCompactAttractive on the countertopEasy to clean, dishwasher safeNot too loudAnnihilates fruits & vegetablesCons:Produces a little foam due to the airflow from the juicer but it can easily be skimmed off if it bothers youPlunger thingy could use a little weight to it so that it doesn't float up when you're grabbing other stuff to toss in the juicer.Included recipe book is a little weak


