1348617600
5.0
review/summary: You can literally see the filth leaving your carpet.review/text: Best bang for your buck. We had to save up to purchase this one, so the $470 BISSELL Big Green Deep was way out of our price range.Aside from having an uncle who tracks oil & dirt home from work, we also have a cat with incontinence who pees wherever the heck she wants, & unfortunately trained our fat kitty that it was okay to do the same.So one day we come into a little money & my mom says "here's $300, do whatever you want with it." I bought an exercise bike & this carpet cleaner, because they'd been on the to-get list for years & years.So there's this clear plastic layer on top where you can actually see what the vacuum is picking up & what color it is. There's a long plastic ruler used for pulling out stubborn carpet ling & cat hair. Otherwise, just pour a few cups of water directly into the carpet & it clears it for you.You wouldn't believe the color of the water that comes out. The first time it was as black as night. The 3ed time over the cat spots & it was like beer. I personally recommend going over the cat spots once or twice a week for 2 or 3 months, occasionally pouring a solution of vinegar/hydrogen peroxide/baking soda/water directly into the carpet & letting it sit for 2 minutes if replacing the carpet is not in the budget. Also, do not use the brushes on the cat spots; that just spreads it. Thankfully the brushes have 3 settings & one of them is off.I can't imagine using a single-tank carpet cleaner; it would be like bathing in stagnant water. These separate tanks are very easy to fill, empty, & clean. If the suction doesn't seem to be working in the vac, you'll need to readjust the lower tank or it's lid. Also, if your cleaning solution tank is still half full, don't dump it out; it works well enough with cold water.This is quite interesting to use on large rugs if you have pets; the brushes gather up any pet hairs your vacuum missed & spits them back out into little balls you can vacuum up afterwards. The steam vac seem to also iron out the rugs.There are some downsides of course. This machine is very loud as a Fantom vacuum with a similar turn-off sound akin to a jet engine. The other downside is it's weight; have fun dragging this thing upstairs. Heavy like the metallic Kirby 2000, but at least that thing has a handle down below specifically for carrying upstairs.Important: The dirty water tank is a demanding mistress. If you do not put it back in perfectly or the lid is not on perfectly, the suction doesn't work. All the people out there claiming that it didn't work after the first use clearly didn't read the manual.


