1357603200
5.0
review/summary: Fantastic Juicer!review/text: We first got into juicing after watchingFat Sick & Nearly Dead. We initially started with aBig Boss 700-Watt, 18,000 RPM Juicer, Blackwe got on Groupon - you can see my review of that product on that page, but in summary it is a good beginner's juicer but not good long term (it burned out after about 6 months).OVERALL: This is a fantastic juicer that has a lot of refinements. One other reviewer called it the Lexus of juicers and I can agree - it performs similar to other juicers but there are some key attention to detail points that make it super nice.PROS:1) Powerful motor has been able to handle everything I've put in - even has built-in protection to stop motor burn out.2) The components line up SO NICELY! The lid is all smooth edges so it cleans super easy. It has plenty of overlap in all areas so nothing gets splattered all over your kitchen. The pitcher easily attaches so you catch everything.3) Lid perfectly angled to direct debris away from the blade and into the LARGE debris container. I'm able to make enough juice to fill a beer growler plus some without having to clean out mid-way.4) Juice comes out debris free. This should be a no-brainer but it was not the case with our old juicer.5) It has a nice wide base with a good weight, meaning it doesn't bounce around when juicing.6) Surprisingly quite. We are able to have a conversation at normal speaking volume when using.7) The speed adjustment knob! Oh this is nice! Dial it in to what you are putting in and it uses the appropriate speed for that food item.CONS:This may sounds lame, but I can't think of any. This juicer corrects every complaint I had from our Big Boss.OTHER: Thinking about saving a little money and getting theBreville JE98XL Juice Fountain Plus 850-Watt Juice Extractor? I've not used that unit, but I will say that the speed adjustment dial alone is worth the extra money. It will help you get better yield and will extend the lifetime of your juicer.WHAT DO I JUICE?: Apples, oranges, lemons, ginger, cucumber, baby spinach, baby kale, carrots, kiwi, blueberries, strawberries, watermelon, celery, romaine lettuce.


