1354492800
1.0
review/summary: Coffee has strong chemical tastereview/text: After receiving the B60 we followed the directions and went through the brew cycle several times with plain water. We noticed that the water coming out of the brewer had a strong chemical smell that was the same as the plastic water reservoir smell. Thinking this was not normal, we washed the reservoir several times with soap and water and then repeated the plain water brew cycle with two full reservoir fillings. We then brewed 6 cups of coffee and the plastic chemical smell and taste was still very strong and the coffee not drinkable.A google search turned up many similar experiences. A common reccommendation to eliminate the plastic taste is to run through the brew cycle with a white vinegar solution. We tried it and it lessened the plastic smell and taste but it's still noticeable. We'll run through this process several more times with the expectation that it will fix the problem.Keurig must be aware of this problem and should advise customers of a suitable solution on its web site - but they don't. Keurig charges a lot of money for thie product and should offer a free water reservoir replacement made with a different plastic. We've never had a similar problem with our old Mr Coffee and Cuisinart that cost much less. We've written to Keurig and will update the review with their reply.If you purchase the brewer be aware of the problem and the vinegar solution.UPDATE:Keurig replied to our complain with the following:Some customers have informed us that they have experienced an unpleasant scent when they unpack their new brewers, particularly with the cold water reservoir.Although not desirable, it is not unusual for new plastic items to carry a scent which dissipates when the item is left in an open area. You can speed up this process by using white vinegar to neutralize the scent while flushing water through the brewer. To do this, follow these steps:1. Fill the reservoir with water and add two tablespoons of white vinegar2. Open and close the brewer handle to simulate a brew cycle (do not insert a portion pack)3. Press the largest cup size and brew a cup of water.4. Repeat the process (opening and closing the lid, then brewing) until the reservoir is empty.5. Flush two more reservoirs of water (no vinegar with these) through the brewer in the same way.


