1357430400
5.0
review/summary: Excellent Entire House Humidifierreview/text: I've had this humidifier for two months now and I am very pleased with its operation. I have it in our Living Room with a fan setting of low and it is very quiet. We don't even notice the sound while watching TV. I live in Ohio and with the cold climate this humidifier is going thru both tanks of water per 24 hours but that's expected since our house is 2900 square feet. I have an electronic humidistat which monitors the humidity on our first floor and we have manually dialed in the Honeywell humidifier to 45% using the electronic humidistat as a guide. The ENTIRE house stays at 45 +/- 1% with this Honeywell humidifier. I've checked every floor with the electronic humidistat and the humidity is dead on. It took about 5 days for the whole house to reach 45% humidity. Without the humidifier our house was getting down to 25% humidity on cold windy days. I clean it once a month and flip the wick filter every two weeks to increase the filter life. Our humidifier season is 5 months long and I plan to get 2.5 months from the wick filter so I only have to buy two per season. The key is to use humidifier water treatment solution in the tanks each time you fill them up. Just squirt a teaspoon of the water treatment solution into each tank prior to filling them up and this will keep the humidifier and the filter a lot cleaner. I use a water treatment + bacteria-static combo mixture so I only have to deal with one water treatment solution. The only negative comment is that once in a while the humidifier will start buzzing when the tanks get low because they are vibrating but with a gently nudge of the tanks the buzzing stops immediately. It is slightly awkward to fill the tanks because they don't sit flat when filling them but luckily we have a large kitchen sink and you eventually develop a system for filling the tanks. If I could rate the product in half increments it would be a 4.5 but I think its well worth it for the price and functionality and if you plan to humidify a large area.


