1356739200
3.0
review/summary: Used It Often for Nearly 5 Years, Then On/Off Switch Brokereview/text: Flair is a good name for this vacuum. It is unique in many regards, starting with its flashy color. I am not sure who is looking to make a statement with his/her vacuum, but if it can bring a little excitement to an otherwise boring activity, all the better. In addition to the color, this vacuum has a unique curvy profile that one would swear could never stand up on that tiny little base, but it does! High five to the engineer who accomplished this feat of balance. Another really cool feature of this product is the pivoting head. A simple turn of your wrist causes the head to turn left or right while you are vacuuming. Don't try this with your old clunky Hoover that grandma passed down to you. Better than hanging ten on a surfboard or riding a wheelie on your bicycle, this trick actually has redeeming value, as it makes the vacuum more maneuverable. Lastly, I was impressed with the fact that I could turn the roller on or off by selecting a different position on the on/off switch. The purpose, of course, is that you don't need the roller spinning when you are cleaning hard floors. In fact, having the roller spinning can scatter dirt, as opposed to sucking it up. Even many pricier vacuums do not have this nifty feature.Now the dirt on this vacuum:First, I had to retire the vacuum today, nearly 5 years after buying it, because the on/off switch bit the dust. I could no longer select the roller-off mode, which is the one that I use 95% of the time. The vacuum would only power on to the roller-on mode. This is very disappointing, as I was otherwise very pleased with the vacuum. It held up well over the years that I used it.Second, though well balanced when upright, this vacuum is still prone to tipping with even the slightest nudge. Once during my ownership, it was nudged and took a hard fall on our hard floors. A piece of the vacuum broke off, though it was not anything critical to operation.Third, there is a really pathetic dust filter on the air discharge vent for the vacuum. The idea is that dusty air won't be blown into your house. Great idea, but lousy execution. The filter on this vacuum wouldn't filter much of anything. It's like one of those fiberglass furnace filters that could last an eternity, because it catches next to nothing. Incidentally, if you have never used one, try buying a Filtrete furnace filter from 3M. Sure, you might pay $10 or more for one, but you will be shocked by what it removes from your air in just 90 days. But I digress!Back on this vacuum, I am being generous with 3 stars. Sure, it was a nice vacuum for nearly 5 years, but vacuums should last longer than this. The days of passing down vacuums from one generation to the next are mostly behind us. Manufacturers churn out junk now, and this flashy unit will be gracing a landfill near me soon. It deserved so much better, but Hoover saved a nickel by installing a cheap switch that couldn't outlast the other mechanical parts on the vacuum.


