1356652800
3.0
review/summary: Good but not greatreview/text: I have the ICE-21 model and love it. It makes tremendous ice cream. I am really into making ice cream and do 1 - 2 batches a week. I researched how to make the best base and find the best maker. For the money, the ICE-21 was great. However, I make 1.5 quart recipes and with expansion I overtop the 1.5 quart ICE-21.My family gave me the ICE-30 2 quart and I was really excited to use it. The first thing I noticed was the dasher, AKA paddle is redesigned for the ICE-30. It only scrapes one side and bottom whereas the ICE-21 scrapes both sides on the side and bottom. When reading the instructions for the ICE-30 they say it takes 25-35 mins which is much longer than the ICE-21 which is 20 minutes. I made my first batch in the ICE-30 and noticed right away that the consistency is much softer than the ICE-21. The ice cream was good, but formed with larger grainer ice crystals than my ICE-21 and took 35 minutes.The reason for this is the dasher. It does not scrape the sides of the freezing vessel close enough. A thin layer of frozen ice cream forms and is not scrapped off. This thin layer acts as insulation and the rest of the base does not contact the brushed metal sides for a rapid freeze. This is a real problem because the faster the base freezes, the smaller the ice crystals, the creamier the ice cream. On my second batch I used my thumb to apply pressure to the dasher to scrap the sides, and bam, the ice cream came out great in about 15 minutes.The secret to great ice cream is a terrific base, with rapid freezing where the ice crystals are so small they are nearly imperceptible. The size of the freezing vessel, speed at which it turns, and the contact of the dasher scraping the sides are key. Cuisinart gets this really right and at a great price. However, with the ICE-30 the dasher is slightly too small and leaves too much buildup on the sides. I am going back to the ICE-21 and regrettably am retuning the ICE-30. I am sending my feedback to Cuisinart and hopefully they redesign the dasher. I am a big fan and hope they perfect it. Good luck and have fun.


