1348617600
4.0
review/summary: Good value for a glass jug...review/text: My first impression upon unpacking was how heavy duty it looked; I mean not that it's for industrial use or anything, but the glass is a bit thicker than some European-brand glass teapot I bought a bit earlier, and I use that to handle boiling water. This should be no problem -- but I use it primarily for the latter half of the equation: making iced tea! As with any glass product, one should beware never to heat it up or cool it down too quickly, or it might shatter; that includes putting it on a cold surface while filling it up with hot tea, or moving it to the fridge too quickly, or taking it out of the fridge and filling it up with hot water -- you get the point. What I do is use that other glass teapot I mentioned for steeping the tea, and then pouring its contents into this jug. It takes about 3 times to fill it, perfect for loose-leafed tea that could be steeped a couple times. That way the water is never exactly boiling hot. Then, I let it sit for a while in room temperature while it cools down a bit.There are several main complaints that people have made against this product, and I will attempt to address them a bit:1) The lid assembly -- it isn't that confusing if one only spends a few minutes taking it apart and seeing how it works. There's an outer rim and a cylindrical part in the middle that screws into it. It gradually gets wider on the bottom. There's also a rubber ring that acts as a seal. Here's how it works: As the cylinder tightens onto the rim, the rubber ring is forced onto the wider portion, stretching it a bit, and tightening it against the glass. So to close the lid, all you have to do is hold down the outer rim so it doesn't move, and tighten the middle (but not too tight). To open, all you have to do is loosen the middle part about half a turn. Easy.2) I haven't had an issue with water running down the side of the jug when pouring, but I should warn that the spout is too steep of an incline, so water tends to pour somewhat parallel to the jug height. In other words, you sort of have to lift the jug more than usual to have a smooth pour (and as such, it will pour faster than you want). Additionally, even though the opening is just big enough for a slight stream with the lid on, it doesn't appear to be its designed function. The spout probably prevents steam from hot water from building up too much pressure. I do recommend that the lid be taken off before pouring.3) The handle is shaped kind of awkwardly, no doubt to save precious fridge real estate, but it also makes it a bit hard to get a grip if you have larger hands. No, it's not hard enough that it presents a safety issue, it's just a bit tight, that's all.I highly recommend this product. Not perfect, but a very good value for the price.


