1354320000
2.0
review/summary: Attachment is overcomplicated and under-whelmed by cleaning resultsreview/text: After the tremendous disappointment with theBISSELL ProHeat Upright Deep Cleaner, 25A3I opted to switch to a different brand to try something different. While there's a lot that I like about the Hoover F5914-900 there's a lot NOT to like. For starters it doesn't do as good a job on deep cleaning carpets as theBISSELL ProHeat Upright Deep Cleaner, 25A3and I frequently have to switch to the hand tool to clean bad spots. That said the Hoover doesn't pull up so many carpet fibers and track them around. Speaking of the wand attachment/hand I've never used a machine that had such a complicated, time-consuming means of attaching it for use. It requires leaning the handle and Clean Water Tank back to access the Dirty Water Tank. In the process water leaks out of the Clean Water Tank requiring a whole new clean up. Attaching the hose requires opening the Dirty Water Tank (disgusting), sliding out a panel (which isn't easy, nor is getting it back in!), and then attaching the end of the hose to the tank and a separate water line. Pretty simple eh? Score one for Bissell where you simply turned a dial and powered it on. Disconnecting the hose is similarly complicated and still more water leaks out (Yay!). Suffice to say if you need this for quick cleanups you're better served by a smaller devise or simply leave the cleaning wand attached at all times. That said, the rotating cleaning wand worked VERY well...the tradeoff is the general mess left behind. The floor/carpet cleaning is decidedly so-so and my hunch is after using this for a while you'll still want to spring for one of the truly heavy duty cleaning machines or have a service come in and do it.All in all, the Hoover F5914-900 is something of a disappointment as it does nothing particularly well. If you need a knockabout general use machine I'm sure this is fine. If you have pets or entertain frequently and need to clean up various spills this is NOT the machine for you. Maybe I'm a bit extreme and simply need a machine that is specific for spot cleaning and treatment and another for general carpet clearning and that's probably where I'm headed. But to my mind the Hoover F5914-900 is the Jack of all trades and the master of none.


