1358121600
3.0
review/summary: Not worth the hassle and money, get a stove top model!review/text: I bought this as a gift for my girlfriend, even though I was a bit skeptical after reading some of the negative reviews on here. I would like to start off by saying this little espresso maker works just fine if you follow the included instructions and get a feel for how to properly pack the espresso beans. However, I think the reason these electric espresso makers appeal to so many people is because they think it will be easier to use or more convenient/ less of a hassle than the stove top models. I would like to assure anyone in the market for an espresso maker, that that is most probably not the case.This thing has a lot of moving parts and components in it. All these components have to be kept pretty clean (read: clean thoroughly at least once a week) in order to ensure proper operation and long life. On top of that, in order to get a nice cup of espresso from this model, you need to let the unit heat up for at least 15 minutes. I don't like to keep my appliances plugged in over night, so this is definitely a bit of a set back in my book. The included tamper and milk steamer work very well and are probably my favorite part about this espresso maker. Keeping all that in mind I'd like to offer a comparison of this model vs a stove top espresso maker in terms of convenience, operation life, and cost:Electric Espresso Machine - Prep time (fill with water, let unit heat up, pack espresso beans): at least 15 minutesBrew time: around 30 secondsClean up time: around 2 - 3 minutes per day (15 - 20 minute clean time each week)Expected useful life: 10 years, topsCost: $100+Stove top Espresso Maker - Prep time (fill with water and pack espresso beans): 1 minuteBrew time: 3 - 5 minutes (on an electric stove)Clean Up time: 1 - 2 minutes (clean after every use)Expected useful life: 80+ yearsCost: $25 - $40The stove top espresso maker I use was made in Italy and handed down to me from my great grandma. It is over 80 years old and it still makes a perfect cup of espresso every time. Unless you are alright with leaving your appliances plugged in over night and wasting electricity, it seems like the stove top model would be a better choice for most espresso drinkers. Plus with the extra money saved from purchasing a stove top model, you could buy a milk frother, a few cans of espresso beans, and an espresso cup set to go along with it.Final words: I believe the stove top model would be more reliable and easier to maintain than any residential electric espresso maker offered on the market today. However, if you're looking to make a cup of espresso in less than 1 minute in the morning and are alright with leaving your appliances running overnight, by all means, go with this model!


