1360886400
5.0
review/summary: Got The New K-75 For Freereview/text: Unboxing:Item was purchased from Amazon directly; Arrived triple boxed and in perfect condition. I was presently surprised to find a little note from Keurig stating I was amung the first to receive the new K-75 this seems to be a silent upgrade as the UPC, and printed box specs are for the current model B-70.The unit was packaged securly with an instructional/promotional packet above the top piece of styrofoam that was 1/2 of a steady shell that surround the fully assembled unit. Packet contained a "Buy two get two free offer" for K-Cup packs if purchased from Keurig directly, the owners manual, and the surprise note mentioned above along with specials directions on how to install the included water filter.Setup:Setup was easy, and took less than ten minutes complete. (This includes the brewing of the first cup) I found the most difficult part of the process was installing the water filter into the unit, as it must be lowered into the units tank, and seated on an inlet hole towards the rear of the tank. I would say most people would not have an issue with this however, and fully blame my ape hands for the difficulty I encountered.Use:The unit was ready for its first brew about 4 minutes after turning it on. Prep is simple and consists of raising the front lever, dropping a K-cup into the hole, closing the lid, and hitting brew. Not much more to say about the possess, it just works. The one thing that did stand out is how quite this unit is from start to finish. It is not much louder that the Bunn pour over machine it replaced!Misc:This unit looks great with the blue LED lit tank, and matching buttons. The larger 75oz tank slightly reduces the drip try area as it extends past the base as a result of the larger size. This in no way hinders use of the unit.The directions for the water filter say each filter pod should be changed every 60 tank fills or every two months; which seems more than reasonable as a three pod replacement pack is about $12.Brews coffee as well as any of Keurig units I have tried, and water temp is accurate to within 1 degree of its set point measured at the very top of the stream coming out of the unit.All in all I am very happy with this product, and as a result I just purchased another for my office.


