1348963200
4.0
review/summary: Very Goodreview/text: Received this product from Amazon.com. The product was not shipped in a brown shipping box...it was simply sent out in the manufacturer's box. When it arrived, the box had a hole in it which must have happened during shipping. I do not like when amazon ships merchandise out in the original manufacturers' boxes. #1 the product is not properly protected and #2 I don't like to see merchandise that I've paid for prominently displayed for neighbors and potential thieves to see.Since the box was damaged, I could not give it as a bridal shower gift so I used it myself, although I was hesitant to open the box for fear the merchandise inside was also damaged.The product did not appear to be harmed so I made my fresh, homemade pizza dough and gave the Pizzaz machine a shot. I was pleasantly surprised and also very mildly disappointed. I was disappointed because it's a real pain in the fatoodle to get the metal pizza plate to fit so that it rotates. It took me so long that I thought the machine was broken and I was ready to pack it up and send it back. FINALLY the plate fell into place and the machine started rotating.The pizza takes longer to bake than the manual states. My fresh pizza was baked on dual and I had to keep adding minutes beyond the 13 minutes it stated. The top was beautifully done...nice melted mozarella cheese and sauce. I made a 12" pizza like the manual instructs but the outer edges of the pie could have been baked more. Towards the end of the baking, I turned it to lower only and gave it a few more minutes. My cracker-thin pie took a minimum of 20 minutes to bake.Having said that, the pie was delicious. The bottom crust was nice and crispy just the way I like it. The edges were still a little undone but by the time the pie cools down, the edges are fine.I would like to order two more Pizzaz Pizza Makers but I will probably go to a brick store as these two extra machines would be the replacement bridal shower gift and a Christmas gift for my brother. I don't want to take a chance on any more damaged boxes.


