1353628800
5.0
review/summary: It's big, but it sure does the job.review/text: For years, I used two mid-sized tabletop humidifiers to add moisture to the air in my house during the winter. Even with two mid-size units going at the highest fan settings, they could never get the humidity above 33% (in an area about 1000 sq. ft.) when the woodstove is running. The old units finally died at the end of the last heating season. I decided to replace them with a single console humidifier. One of my tabletop units was a quietcare, and I was happy with the lower noise level compared to my other tabletop unit. After doing a lot of reading, I settled on this Honeywell. Boy does this thing work great! I usually keep the fan setting on medium; and this keeps the humidity level between 44%-48% (which is where I have it set). Also, this this isn't running all the time like my two table top units did. I'll probably back the humidity level off to 40%-43% when the weather gets really cold so I don't get condensation building on surfaces.This unit is also the easiest to clean humidifier I've ever owned. The water tanks have large openings. Everything lifts off the base for easy cleaning. The slots are nice and large and it will be easy to get them cleaned with Q-tips when the time comes. I had the entire unit disinfected with a bleach and water solution; wiped down; filter replaced; and going again in less than 20 minutes.The noise level is pretty good. When I set the fan on low, I can barely hear it. The fan on medium is noticeable, but not loud enough to interfere with normal conversation. High is pretty loud, but I only have to use this setting to get the moisture level up quickly.The humidifier is larger than I imagined. I used a tape measure with the given dimensions to figure out where I was going to put it. But even so, it sure seems big compared to my old units. The two tanks only hold 1.5 gal. of water each, so expect to be filling them frequently at times. But I like the twin tank arrangement. If the tanks were any bigger, they'd be difficult to handle.The filters trap a good amount of dust. I took someone else's advice and turned my filter upside down after using it for a couple weeks. Even with a dusty filter, this unit continues to do a great job of putting moisture in the air. Do yourself a favor and forget the add-in Protec anti-microbial balls. The standard HC-14 filter is Protec antimicrobial treated anyway.


