1351900800
5.0
review/summary: My most favorite thing in the kitchen - and much healthier!review/text: Long story short, this is the best thing ever. It is nonstick, it washes easily, things that are left to harden in it come off with a wipe of a dry paper towel, it is its own hot pad and serving dish, the temp can boil things or warm things... and you don't need a bunch of grease to keep things from sticking.I've had mine since 2009 ... and frequently use it to make fried rice without the need for tons of oil. Tomato sauce hasn't damaged it which is rare in nonstick surfaces. A favorite thing to do is use it to cook a couple pieces of bacon and chicken breasts at the same time... the chicken ends up slightly crispy with the YUM BACON taste and it turns into chicken bacon and cheese sandwiches.EXAMPLE of why it's the best things ever:I finally convinced my mother that she needed one when we were making homestyle potatoes for a 16 person dinner... so I brought this with me and we used her electric skillet as well (one that she's been using happily for YEARS). She was ready to throw it out halfway through cooking the potatoes. Paying equal attention to both pans and turning every minute or so we ended up with 2 very different scenarios. We started with the same thing - a few tablespoons of butter, onions and 5 pounds of potatoes. In my skillet we could turn them, brown them, do whatever I wanted. Add spices and done. In her skillet, every time I tried to turn potatoes I had to scrape them off the bottom of the pan and add another few tablespoons of butter. It was like the pan was absorbing it. Even with her "nonstick" surface potatoes were getting stuck or burned to the bottom of the pan and therefore turning them just ripped that part off and turned the rest of the cube into mush. After we had added an extra 1.5 sticks of butter to her pan she gave up and we turned her skillet off. After we finished with my batch, we put her half done potatoes in my skillet to finish them. My step dad then spent 10 minutes trying to clean it while mine was already in the drying rack.At this point I have one, my mother has one, my sister has one and we have one up at our cabin where we don't have running water... we can just bring it down to the dock, dip it in the lake, wipe it out and it's clean.The only reason every one of my friends doesn't have one as well is because they never have to serve a group of people. They just always come to my place.


