1355875200
5.0
review/summary: Makes perfect waffles - cleanup a bit of workreview/text: Highly recommend this unit, and you can&#8217;t beat the price.This waffle maker definitely does a great job. It is so nice not to guess at a finish time or peek at waffles when they are cooking! When the light goes off, the waffle is perfect - mildly crisp on the outside and fluffy on the inside. If you want your waffles a bit browner, just leave them in for another minute or two. The waffles are cooked evenly on both sides, and it is unnecessary to flip over the unit - awesome.And, please do follow the advice of another of the reviewers - your waffle recipe should contain some vegetable oil. Although my waffles didn't stick, per se, they weren't as easy to remove as they would have been with some oil in the recipe (I used banana instead). Also, follow the 3/4 cup rule for the batter - I did try a full cup once, but it just spills over and doesn't cook the edges properly. However, the spillover area is plenty large, and it didn't make a total mess down the sides.It helps to spray with non-stick spray before each waffle. Someone else stated to use a waffle recipe and not a pancake recipe. However, my gluten, egg and dairy-free pancake recipe worked fine. Please do experiment before you have multiple mouths impatiently awaiting their waffles.Now for cleanup. I suppose one cannot expect a deeper Belgian waffler to be easy to clean. Until a manufacturer comes out with STURDY removable plates, I'm afraid we're all stuck with intricate cleanup (there is one waffler out there with removable plates, but the reviewers state the clips are plastic and flimsy, and it appears the setup will break at any moment). However, after soaping with a paper towel and rinsing the best I could (no immersion, of course), I did use some Q-tips both horizontally and vertically to clean up what the paper towel was unable to accomplish. Worked great.It does have a very small footprint and can be stored on its end, so it won&#8217;t take up too much cupboard space. I just keep it on top of the microwave.


