1358985600
4.0
review/summary: Happy with it, though a few flawsreview/text: I'd probably give it 3 1/2 stars if I could. Giving it 4 rather than 3 because I think it's still likely the best out of all I've looked at considering the features I wanted. I needed an alternative to a stove-top model since I'm notorious for walking away and forgetting, even with whistler kettles, I've boiled them dry many times because I forgot to put the whistle cap down. I settled on this kettle after reading a lot reviews related to the same topic I was concerned about - plastic elements heating up. I've had it for about a month, so I can't speak to longevity yet, but I finally tossed the box since I don't plan to return it, it's worked out pretty well so far, and the auto-shutoff seems to be working, though it does have to come to a full rolling boil to the point that the pot is rocking and dancing before it shuts off. I have the same issues most everyone else seems to be having with the pouring - not a deal breaker, but it dribbles no matter how carefully I pour - and a lot if I pour too fast. I washed it inside with dawn dish soap and powder pumice which is a great de-greaser when I first got it, I had read that most stainless appliances shipped from china have a thin coating of oil to survive storage and shipping, and I think it needed that cleaning. Did the recommended boil and dump 3 times before using it to make my first cup of tea, and it tasted fine even using the lid, no plastic taste or smell to the water, and I'm pretty sensitive. I did take out that little filter screen because we use filtered water for drinking.One reviewer mentioned she didn't think it was stainless, and I agree, but I think it's just the inside base and about 1/4 to 1/2 inch up the side - that part started discoloring/rusting almost immediately for me, and I do empty it and drain it upside down after every use. It looks like it's fused to a regular stainless body because the rust goes up to an exact point at about the 1/4 in. mark inside, and probably the reason it heats up so quickly, since stainless is not a great heat conductor. I have no idea what that metal is or whether it's unhealthy to use. I wouldn't guess aluminum because I don't think aluminum rusts. I'm not happy about that, and if I thought there was a good alternative kettle I'd send this one back, but I don't think there is.My only other complaint would be that the lid sticks sometimes (the release button doesn't always work to get it to pop up), and when I take the lid out, I can hear water inside of it, it's basically a thick hollow piece that's not sealed, so I have to kind of shake it out.Overall, though, considering what's available out there, it was probably the best choice I could have made, and a very convenient thing to have.


