1352937600
1.0
review/summary: Do not buy this overpriced hunk of junk. PLEASE READreview/text: I've been putting off writing a bad review on this coffee maker for months now. I've owned this coffee maker for about 1 1/2 years now and I've used it very little.Pros:- Makes a decent cup of jo- Has a built in water filter (which was of no use to me)- Looks goodCons:- Difficult to program- Filling gauge is inaccurate and awkwardly placed- Reservoir is difficult to fill- The "sneak a cup" feature doesn't work- Completely overpriced for its poor engineering- 100% guaranteed that you will spill water on your counterOk, so where do I begin? First off I got this coffee maker because I saw that it has a knob that let's you chose the temperature of you coffee (as I do not like it blisteringly hot). But it turns out that it only controls the temp of the heating pad, the coffee will always be brewed at the same temp. Ok that was my mistake, I should have realized that coffee always needs to be brewed at a certain temp.As far as engineering this is one of the stupidest things I've ever seen. Among other thing the "sneak a cup" feature has NEVER worked for me. It has always dumped coffee onto the hot plate as I try to fill my cup as fast as possible (burned myself a few times). The filling gauge is only a "feature" for people like Shaquille O'Neal. You have to look down the reservoir to see the water line which means you'll need to stand on your tip toes to look down it while it's sitting on your counter (I'm a 5'10" male btw). So you will ultimately fill your coffee pot to get an accurate measurement. Then you will attempt to pour it down the awkwardly placed reservoir and likely spill it on your counter.Now if you were accurate enough to get the water in there without spilling it I can 100% guarantee you will get your counter wet the next day you go to brew again. The water from the previous brew will condensate and stay on the lid so when you lift it up all the way, to fill your awkward reservoir, it will drip down the back and onto your counter. There is no getting around it this problem. And it will not be a small amount of water either. There was absolutely no compensation made to keep the water from dribbling down the back. And you KNOW that they knew it would happen because what they did was put a little lip over the power cord to prevent water from following the cord into machine. And lastly I was never able to program it to go off at a certain time in the morning I didn't care enough to make a serious attempt but that's because its confusing as all get out.On the good side of things it does come with an integrated charcoal filter but that was of no use to me as I already use filtered water to make my coffee. So ultimately I just threw it away. It's just another thing to buy anyway.Finally, the last straw. The reason I finally got on here to write this review. Today when I woke up to heat up a pot of coffee i'd made the last day (don't judge me! :) ) I noticed a funny smell coming from my kitchen. I assumed it was one of my neighbors making meth or something, but no, it was the smell of circuits melting. Coffee pot fried itself and will no longer pump water. I am furious with myself for paying $80 for this hunk of junk.Overall, I can tell is that people want this because it looks good. If all you want is to say "shut up and take my money" then by all means, spend $80 on this ridiculous thing. Just don't expect to get anything close to a quality product.


