1352419200
5.0
review/summary: Power, easy prep/clean & elegantreview/text: This is my first juicer. I've been using it a month and a half, at least once daily and sometimes 3x daily. Smart and sturdy as an Apple product, I had my first juice within five minutes out of the box! And, it's elegant and heavy like a Kitchen Aid mixer so I leave it on the counter.I opted for a juicer over smoothie/combo and other options because I already have a blender that works fine for smoothies. I chose the Breville Elite because of the stainless components and from watching videos demos that confirmed written reviews around the web. Those videos gave me an honest simulation and the $300 price tag was in my budget.Typical recipe for me includes: carrot, beet, kale, celery, cabbage, ginger, apples, lemon, lime. I seem to get a little more juice when its on high than low (but I use both, depending on what's going into the feeder) and I like the foam, so don't mind a little more of that on high. Beets will stain things, so the no-drip juice catcher container is brilliant! I've only had a few drops escape and that was when I was disassembling for cleaning. Now, I tip it up into the container before unclipping the pieces. You'll understand that comment once you use it:)Prep and clean up are quick. Seriously, I'm done with prep, juice and clean up in 15 minutes. By using hot water and cleaning up immediately (usually while I'm drinking the juice) the unit is ready for my next meal. No dirty dishes in the sink. I love it. I put the non-motor parts through the dishwasher once a week with other dishes. Otherwise, just hot water and a little soap.The basket is the ONLY piece that takes some elbow and special tool. The brush that comes with it works great and I just throw it in the dishwasher too.Would & have highly recommended this specific Breville juicer to lots of people. From my experience so far, I'd absolutely look at Breville again for other products.... and I'm pretty sure the prices are the same as Amazon for new products.Lastly, I'm now among the converts to juicing. My energy and outlook is up, allergies down and weight dropping. Sorta like driving a hybrid - it also feels fantastic to contribute daily to a better, healthier planet.


