1357603200
2.0
review/summary: "PLUM" sheets are not PLUM, they are GREYISHreview/text: I did not purchase these, my husband bought them for me last week on his own Amazon account, but as they are my sheets I am going to review them.Soo, just a heads up if you want to order the "Plum" shade and having a purple sheet is important to you! Expect a pale grayish color to arrive with a super slight tint of plum, nothing like the photo. I am disappointed about this as a purple sheet was what I wanted. I don't know why manufacturers cannot get colors right first off, and second off at least advertise them color-wise more properly. My 2 star rating is based on the incorrect color advertisement not on the sheet quality.Out of the bag the sheets were not coarse as some reviews stated (at least in my experience) but they did smell strongly of Elmers Glue, haha. I am going to soak with white vinegar for several hours in my bathtub and see if that won't reduce the odor and remove the manufacturer's chemicals. I will update with the results.***EDIT*** 1/11/13OK. I finally got around to preparing these for first use and I did follow some tips from other reviewers and let these soak with white vinegar!I did not use my washer as I don't have one, haha. I instead used my clean bathtub filled all the way with cool water and then put the sheets in until they were completely waterlogged. After that I poured not 1 or 2 cups of white vinegar in, but 32 OZ of it! I used so much because the volume of water these sheets were to be soaked in was way more than that of a washer unit. Anyhow... I let them soak for 4 hours WITHOUT FABRIC SOFTENER as that would have just put a layer of sealant over the sheets and I didn't wanna lock in any manufacturer chemicals.After this, I let the tub drain and left the sheets there for about 2 hours so excess water drained out of them then I took them to the laundromat and used one of the high capacity (4 load) front loader machines. Plenty of TIDE went in and also Downy. Dried sheets in the high capacity dryers they have as well and they came out coarse and wrinkly.SO in essence these sheets:A.) were meant to be 400 thread count sheets and meant to be coarse not smooth and silky.orB.) these sheets will take plenty of use to 'season' them well till the fibers eventually begin to break-down and become soft naturally.This theory is sort of like buying a cast iron skillet and going through the seasoning stages before it begins to live up to it's potential.Frankly, I don't care to torture myself sleeping on these crude sheets long enough to 'season' them about 100 washes or more later IF EVER.I wanted smooth sateen sheets and ignorantly believe that 400 thread count could get me that when I have bought $20 sheets at ROSS and Marshall's which felt heavenly and were not even made of freaking cotton.Bottom Line:Buy these if you want a crisp sheet.If you want a deliciously silky and smooth sheet then PLEASE take your hard earned money elsewhere, these are not the ones for you.best regards, Amber


