1351382400
5.0
review/summary: Affordable and effectivereview/text: I've used heat dishes and the old-style oil heaters. This is the first heater of it's type I tried, and I'll admit the main driving factor was cost. That aside, it looked relatively compact and I was admittedly just curious as to what a 'quartz radiant' heater was.For those who were also wondering, it's the type of element used (quartz heat lamp) and the way it works (reflected infrared). I'm very satisfied with this heater- it's a great compromise between a dish and oil heater and is generally more practical than either of them. Dishes are great for blasting focused heat in a very narrow area, which is good if you want to put it at a distance and still have it warm you up. It's not so good if you're not sitting in one spot or want to warm the whole room up. For the latter, that's where oil heaters excel, but they're also a lot slower in general and use a lot of power. This IR heater has the best of both worlds- it radiates heat quite well over a good size area, and while it might not have the range of a dish it does have the instant gratification. You turn it on, and you'll immediately feel warmer.There's two power settings which essentially just turns on the two elements which are clearly visible in the pictures. At 400W, the top one goes on, and at 800W both come on. The cord is about 6 ft long, making positioning easy. It has a simple stand feet and a carrying handle in the back, as well as a safety grille on the front. You can touch the front while it's on without being burned (yeah, I had to try that) and the heater auto-shuts off if it tips over.Generally speaking you'll want to be in front of it rather than behind, for obvious reasons. The heater can be felt up to about a dozen feet away, and it does a good job of warming up a small room. By itself, it isn't so great with a big room, but then again nothing of this size and cost would be. I would imagine that having 2-3 of them would heat a large room pretty well, which is also quite affordable. Straight up, this makes an excellent personal heater and doesn't break the bank or make your power bill skyrocket.Pros:CheapLight/compactSafeEfficientImmediate heatGood rangeCons:Can't heat a big room solo (but that's to be expected)


