1345680000
4.0
review/summary: EUREKA- THIS WORKS GREAT!review/text: I have had this little Black & Decker 2 Speed 3 Cup Chopper for 2 years now. I found it locally at my local Kroger market Place for only $12- a super bargain for sure. I have had a Black & Decker hand mixer for years and like one other reviewer, I purchased an extra one just to be sure and never be without it. I feel the same way about this little chopper although I have not purchased a 2nd one yet I probably will.I love the size, the sharpness of the blade, the powerful motor that really gets the job done quickly, the 2 PULSE speed choices and the uniform cuts that result from the slower of the 2 speeds. The see-thru bowl allows you to monitor the chopping process perfectly. Even on high speed the veggies are NOT pulverized to a pulp instantly as with some other choppers. The pulse speeds and the see thru bowl allow you to monitor the chopping easily. When a recipe calls for "finely chopped or diced" I use "high" and the results are perfect.I do not find cleaning the top/motor housing a problem. I simply wipe it first with a damp soapy cloth then rinse out the cloth and wipe it again with the plain damp cloth and it's done- rather like washing dirty little faces I guess.;oD And it's so very much easier than dealing with a large Food Processor I do not find it a problem at all.My only little note is that sometimes, when chopping baby carrots, some of the carrots will get under the blade and not allow the lid to engage so I have to re-adjust until it does. This is not major but just an occasional happening. For the splendid results I ALWAYS get, I don't count that much against it's over all performance as a WINNER. I find the 3 cup capacity to be just fine for the uses I need- usually 1/2 to 1 Cup of an ingredient. It's so quick that if more foods were needed, just load it up and go again- it's lightning fast anyway! I have used it only for chopping raw carrots, celery and onions. I haven't tried any soft or cooked foods so I really can't comment on that. I just know that it is sharp, fast and gets consistant results. That's a lot of delivery for such a small and in-expensive item! I was happy read that the Black & Decker Customer Service is excellent too, but so far I have not ever had to use them.I have tried other brands of "mini-choppers" over the years with much frustration and disappointment but this B & D 2 Speed Food Chopper with 3 Cup bowl is A GREAT PRODUCT for making smaller amounts and holding up over time!Thank you!


