1344902400
2.0
review/summary: Great when functioning BUT it did malfunction, melt itself and burn a hole in carpetreview/text: Steamer heats up quickly and is effective at reducing wrinkles in clothes (when it is not malfunctioning).However, the first unit I used ejected a piece of hot metal that burnt it's way through the bottom of the steamer, through my carpet and onto the underlay below. When I contacted SteamFast I was told it was my fault as I "must have used an adapter that caused the unit to overheat or fail altogether" and that they "would not offer assistance because [their] warranty does not cover modifications or alterations." I explained that I used an industry standard 240 to 110V step down transformer rated up to 2000W, and that this ensured the steamer received a reliable 110-120V AC, and meant the unit was not altered in any way (it is synonymous with plugging the device into a 110-120V power socket in the US, or Canada). After many backwards and forwards via email she insisted my use of an 'ADAPTER' was the reason the unit malfunctioned and burnt a hole in my carpet. I suggested that perhaps she was getting TRANSFORMERS confused with ADAPTERS - a high-watt TRANSFORMER is an expensive device the size of a shoe box that transforms the voltage from 240V to 110-120V; an ADAPTER is a cheaper device the size of an electrical plug that simply allows a US plug to be plugged into an Australian socket but does not modify the voltage. I agreed with her that if I had used a adapter instead of a transformer, then yes, the fault would be mine, this would have voided the warranty and that I wouldn't be troubling them. I requested she speak with their engineering department that produce the steamer as I believed they would confirm my explanation above. She agreed to do this some weeks ago but after several attempts to follow up on this with her I have still received no response. Australian's are pretty relaxed, I'm not after a lawsuit, I just want to receive some assistance to repair the hole in my carpet that was created when their unit malfunctioned (while being used on tiles, before being moved out of the way and onto carpet to cool down). Extremely poor customer service, Steam Fast.


