1349568000
5.0
review/summary: Great cup of coffee for anyone on-the-goreview/text: I'm not a coffee snob, but I do take the time for a good cup of morning coffee. Before the Keurig, I was brewing my coffee in a stovetop espresso pot/maker, using fresh ground beans. Other times, I'd use the French press. A few friends had bought a Keurig and I would sort of wonder how anyone would want to spend that much money on a coffee machine for potentially mediocre results. Until...I visited my friend and stayed with her for a few days. She only had a Keurig, and so it was the sole choice at home. The first morning, I brewed a cup, and lo and behold, "This coffee is GOOD!" Not only is the coffee actually good, strong, and full-flavored, it is also so easy, quick, and there's nothing to clean up afterward. I fell in love with that thing and upon returning home, I placed an order for my own machine!I like this model because it has the water reservoir, making it simple to just touch the "Brew" button and have a cup of hot coffee in less than one minute. It also gives you the option for five cup sizes - which varies the strength accordingly as well. You can also adjust the water temperature! At this time, I left mine at the default 192F. You can set the time for your machine to heat the water and be ready to brew when you are ready to have your coffee, and also the off time so that it automatically turns off/stops keeping the water hot and ready for use. If you choose to turn it on while it has been off, it doesn't take longer than a minute for the water to reheat. Impressive!In the mornings before going to work, I really appreciate the ease and quickness of this Keurig! I don't have to spend time measuring water, filling the pot, measuring grounds, waiting 5 minutes for it to brew, etc., and then cleaning the pot. This may all sound petty, but if you have some money to spend on your coffee habit, it sure does make it convenient. :)I just invested in a custom K-cup to use in lieu of the ones that come pre-filled. This way, you can buy your own beans, grind them fresh, and fill the custom K-cup with your own type of coffee. It will also save money, as one package of coffee beans runs between $6-12 and can last well over a month, where as 18 pre-filled K-cups come in a package of 18 or so, and they cost nearly $12-15. Nonetheless, it's nice to have the option to brew any type of coffee you want, pre-filled or your own.Also, for those tea drinkers, there are tea K-cups that you can use as well. I just bought Earl Gray tea K-cups!This has become my favorite kitchen "gadget". :)Very fast shipping.


