1351728000
4.0
review/summary: Sleek & Modern - Great Buyreview/text: I purchased this kettle on Amazon about a month ago and have used it several times to boil water for my french press. For this reason, I usually use it to boil 1-3 cups, and haven't yet made use of the full 8 cups. I've owned two electric kettles prior to this - both plastic and both at lower price points that were purchased during my college years (and both complete kitchen eye sores).The Good:Because I have a studio with minimal counter space in the kitchen area, I was really thoughtful and did my research when choosing all my kitchen appliances. The look of the product is great - it matches very well with my other stainless steel appliances and it also fits into a cabinet when not in use. One big plus about this kettle is the slimmer size. A lot of other kettles on the market had a chubby look to them, which was cute, but wouldn't work for my kitchen. This was exactly what I was looking for in terms of style, size, and price point. I haven't experience a problem with the swivel-lid, and I actually love it. Once I'm done with the kettle, I leave the lid open and the interior dries very quickly, which allows me to store it in my cabinet right away and not have to wait very long. I've had other cheaper plastic kettles that have a standard lid and their interiors never dried like this and the thought of water sitting in all the crevices grossed me out.The Bleh:My one small gripe with the product is that the actual spout area is not wide enough when pouring water and water seeps out around the designated spout area. This doesn't seem to be a malfunction and it doesn't seem to ruin the device at all. I suppose I could make sure not to tip the kettle so far down when pouring, but I don't have enough patience for that! Perhaps just a design mishap. Either way, it's a very small point, and other than that I thought it was a great purchase.If you're looking for a stylish kettle at this price point, this would be a great buy. If you have the funds to get something more expensive, sure, you might find something completely flawless. But for me, I couldn't imagine spending over $50 to boil water and I'm very happy with this product - I'm sure it will last me years to come.


