1347062400
4.0
review/summary: Saves Space and Looks Pretty Nicereview/text: I purchased this pitcher about a year ago, and I have been pretty pleased. Though, it is inevitable that I find things that annoy me over time.My first impression of this pitcher was that it is very practical. I find the timer situated on the top of other Brita pitchers to be very unnecessary as they only count time and not how much water has actually been filtered. I could count time by myself, thanks. The lack of most features is something I actually like, since it keeps the design simple and elegant. The pitcher has been complimented about twice, surprisingly. (I didn't expect a water pitcher to be complimented.) However, it is so simple that there is one place that I consider to be a major flaw - the lip.There's no hinged cover for the lip. That might not be a big issue for most people, but I live in a carpeted apartment for the majority of the year. Dust is absolutely everywhere. It scares me sometimes to find the top become grey instead of white. Just imagine the dust that gets into it! I understand the problem can be easily solved by storing it inside the refrigerator but, I sometimes don't exactly fancy cold water (e.g. during winter). I personally cover it up with a paper towel during such cases, but should that really be an necessity?I could say that the filter rate is a bit slow, but compared to most other filters, it really isn't much slower, if at all. I'm not representing everybody, but I can wait a couple seconds to a minute for a glass of clean water.I have purchased the Clear2O pitcher, which filters microbes and filters water faster. However, those features should not be held against this Brita filter. I may be biased, but my city's ordinance does have strict limitations on organisms in tap water. Also, the Clear2O pitcher requires a direct connection to a faucet via a hose, which involves installing a faucet lip that did not fit in my residence.As much as I praise and defend this product, it unfortunately isn't a five-star product for me simply due to the lack of a lip cover. However, that's the only real flaw I can find. Everything else is there in terms of design and function. Some people may say it is a bit small or holds insufficient amounts water. Well, let's just say you can't have your cake and eat it, too.The Good:- simple design- saves spaceThe Bad:- no lip dust cover- some may say filtering rate is slow- does not filter microbes like the Clear2O filterThe Mediocre:- nothing to be noted


