1355443200
5.0
review/summary: clear off the countertop - it's just as fast as drip, but piping hot!review/text: Reasons why I like this percolator:1. Works great on my induction stove. The percolator makes coffee quickly on the induction. Once it starts to perc, I turn the heat down from HI to 7 for 7 minutes.2. The percolator is multifunctional (use on grill burner, camp stove, and if you unscrew the plastic handle (screw does not go thru to the inside of pot) you could probably use it on a campfire grate).3. Love the smell of perc'd coffee.4. Perc'd coffee is piping hot. Drip is not.5. The coffee will keep hot for a while in the percolator, vs. the drip maker pots which cool quickly or burn the coffee.6. I do not like the idea of drinking hot water sieved thru plastic drip makers.7. You do get the rich flavor of the coffee &#34;oils&#34; this way.A tip, if you are worried about grounds (which I haven't seen any) you can pour the coffee thru a metal mesh coffee filter into your cup easily. Just sit it on top of your cup or measuring cup.Like to use 1 tbsp per cup (inside is marked at 4, 6, 8 cup lines).Also, purchased the &#34;Clear glass percolator top, fits Farberware, etc&#34;. I noticed other reviews saying the glass top does not fit. The glass percolator top does, in fact, fit.What you must do is:1. Unscrew the clear plastic top off.2. Take the black plastic ring off the lid. The black plastic ring sits underneath the plastic top, between the plastic top and metal lid.Next, unscrew the glass top from the metal ring it comes attached to. You will need the metal ring to attach the glass top.Assemble the glass top to the lid:1. Place the glass top directly on top of the metal lid (after the black plastic ring has been removed).2. Place the metal ring ( which came with the glass top) inside/underneath the metal lid. The lid is now sandwiched between the glass top and metal ring.3. Screw the glass top, thru the lid, into the metal ring. So, top to bottom, the lid will consist of: the glass top, the lid, and the metal ring inside. Do not screw too tightly or too loosely, &#34;hand-tighten&#34;.Hope this helps the confusion out there.


