1344297600
5.0
review/summary: So simple to use, even my husband can use it...review/text: I love coffee. My husband loves coffee. However, we do not wake up at the same time in the morning and brewing full pots or trying to brew portion sizes in our 12-cup coffeemaker seemed to be wasting a lot of coffee + filters. Now I want to say I LOVE myCuisinart CHW-12 Coffee Plus 12-Cup Programmable Coffeemaker with Hot Water System, Black/Stainlesshowever, it seemed I was always having to show my husband how to change the features on it or answering questions on how much coffee vs. how much water.I've wanted a Keurig for quite a while but could never justify the cost vs. a regular drip brew considering how much coffee we do go through. I finally decided to pull the trigger recently and have been enjoying a variety of flavors with no-mess and hassle-free use. I'm still in the experimental stages of flavors and getting it "just right" since there are 5 size options but I truly cannot believe the convenience of owning this.Additionally, I wanted to mention we bought this new, directly from Amazon and in the box was a fold-out card explaining that this B70 Platinum brewer has recently been upgraded and now has a 72 ounce reservoir. I'm hoping that the issues I've read when researching Keurig systems were also addressed when they tweaked this B70. All in all, the 12 ounce increase in reservoir is a very pleasant surprise and has not gone unused at all.Also, this B70 Platinum that we received has a "hinged" door on the top of the reservoir that you can lift and pour water directly into the reservoir without removing it from the actual base. This is obviously different from the current product picture which shows only a solid one-piece cover for the reservoir. I have been solely using this hinged opening to add water and I find it extremely convenient.I will update my review if my feelings change regarding this product or any issues occur either during or beyond the warranty period.Edit 8/29/2012:I will not change my rating on this item mainly because of the great customer service available from Keurig. On 8/24 I contacted Keurig regarding an issue with my B70 indicating "PRIME" 3x in a 24 hour period. After reviewing the tutorial on the Keurig website and others on YouTube, I re-seated the reservoir, cleaned out the needles and made sure everything was lined up correctly each time this happened. After the 3rd incident, I contacted Keurig's customer service.After going through a fairly short checklist, mainly confirming the steps I went through after receiving the "PRIME" message, the customer service rep walked me through the warranty process. I should be receiving my replacement B70 today which he did state was a brand new product (considering this was less than 30 days old to begin with) and I will need to return a "part" from the Keurig machine after the replacement arrives. Very smooth process on handling the warranty issue and it does renew the warranty. Obviously I'm disappointed that the machine had such extreme issues this early on and was hoping the new reservoir would have reduced the chance of the pump issue but I am thoroughly satisfied with this company's resolution.


