1353715200
5.0
review/summary: Saw the movie, tooreview/text: Though we've been thinking about a juicer since we inherited my father-in-law's Jack LaLane unit a few years ago (missing a part so never used it!), I wasn't moved to pull the trigger until seeing "Fat, Sick and Nearly Dead" like a lot of other people, apparently.I looked at the different types of juicers and decided our first would be a centrifugal unit. I realized quickly that I'd want one that had a separate pulp collection container which ruled out the least expensive Breville. Having bought one of their higher end coffee grinders a few months ago (and being pretty happy with it), I was glad to see that their juicers have decent reviews overall as well.Since this will be a family affair, I decided to go with the 800JEXL for the more powerful motor and having the wide chute (3") for dropping in the goodies. I also like that much of it is stainless steel though my OCD tendencies should mean not having to worry about staining of plastic parts anyway.The two speeds seem like they should be sufficient for the things it was designed to juice. Time will tell as we're just getting started. The unit is built like a tank (i.e., thick steel and plastic parts and a heavy base housing the motor.) so I hope to get many years of use with appropriate care. There is no component that feels like they cut corners; from the pulp collection bin to the the blade basket to the plunger, they all feel substantive and well thought out.It really does chew through the few things we've thrown at it so far and the pulp seems to be reasonably "dry" which is, as I understand it, a representation of a juicer's efficiency (how well it extracts the fluid you're after).I realize that as we grow into this addition to our diets, a masticating juicer or similar may join the Breville on the counter, but this feels like a good start. I didn't want to save money by buying a less expensive model only to realize that I should have spent the extra on a quality unit. With this Breville, I feel like that's exactly what I got.


