1356566400
5.0
review/summary: The coffee maker is now two years old and the start switch is getting ready to quit on us.review/text: We just thought for moment how many brew cycles our coffee maker has completed in two years to the day when we bought it from Amazon. We figure at a minimum 640 some brew cycles. Still, with a 3 yr limited warranty we will see if we can get the coffee maker repaired. If not, we will replace it with the same machine as we would be lost without it. I read some of the reviews. I will say this. If the person who plans to operate the coffee maker has zero mechanical smarts this machine could be a challenge. While I was out of the country my wife told me the coffee maker developed a problem. When I arrived home I found the thermo-pot lid caked tight with coffee grounds. She did not know to use a coffee filter. When I got everything cleaned out the coffee maker worked just fine. Sometimes she would not get the lid seated properly and I then showed her how to tell when she has it correctly closed. Just hold the top of the pot up to eye level while seating the lid to be sure the lid is screwing down level with the pot. It is easy to see at eye level. If the lid is not level back it off and start over. I will also point out that the lid does require some muscle to close it completely, but even if the lid is not completely tightened to the max it will still perform OK. Just be sure to use the pot to fill the coffee maker so you do not end up with an over flow situation because there was water or coffee left over in the pot. The pot should be empty before hitting the start button...unless you have carefully measured the volume available when adding more brew water. I would figure at that point your a near genius if you are doing something like that and you are certain of what you are doing. If you have a tendency to drop items you are holding with your hands you might as well order the spare thermo-pot lid while your at it. The price of the lid is very reasonable for what it does. Overall, this coffee maker is hands down a real winner.


