1360022400
5.0
review/summary: love it!review/text: Okay, so I have never reviewed a product, but......it took me about a year to order this, partly because of all the mixed reviews. BUT, I love this pressure cooker!!!!!I went and did research on this electric cooker, and it does get to the psi needed. So don't listen to everyone making it sound like electric ones don't really work. I have an electric stove so I can't get the instant heat anyway. I have made split pea soup in less than 10 minutes which was to die for (and split pea soup is not a favorite!), black bean vegitarian chili, rice pudding, white chili, cooked 5 pounds of chicken breasts in about 10 minutes, made lentil soup, cooked black beans and pinto beans in about 30 minutes with no presoak......and I could go on and on. My husband says he lost me to the pressure cooker....:)I also will tell you that my first one came shipped broken...the whole bottom was broken off. Customer service thru amazon is amazing!!!! I was shipped one out overnight and they picked up the broken one at their expense and no questions asked. If you are considering ordering, don't wait any longer! I wish I would have had this when my triplets plus one boy were all at home!Don't feel you need to order a bunch of recipe books. I ordered two, and if you are new to pressure cooking like I was, the information is helpful. But you can google any questions you have and there is a wealth of information out there. I have adapted my own receipes and it works great.The instructions are pretty simple to follow. Matching up the pressure valve with the other little circle is kind of strange and a little hard to read....don't know why they didn't make it red or something. But make sure they match up before cooking under pressure. My aunt says her red valve occasionally gets stuck. Mine has not yet, but she pushes hers down with a toothpick. The people who say theirs got rusted and didn't stay clean......well, take it apart and clean it people! Make sure it is dry before you store it and it won't rust!The charts in the small book you receive are pretty right on...don't hesitate to follow them.REALLY.... Don't wait any longer!


