1353456000
5.0
review/summary: Great Espresso Machinereview/text: After owning two Cuisinart Espresso machines(one after the other) and having them both die after about a year's use, I decided to look for another reasonably priced machine. Consumer reports indicated that the DeLonghi EC-155 was a great espresso for the money(budget category). I purchased this earlier this month, received it from Amazon shipping within three days and got it ready to use. After having read many of the reviews of this machine on this website, I watched for potential problems and thus far, have found none.Yes, the plate that the cup rests on vibrates a bit but so did the Cuisinart. It does not affect performance, just keep your eye on the cup(as it fills the vibrating is less). I found warm-up to take only two minutes or so and it is ready to brew. It takes less time to the frothing procedure after brewing. Now to the frothing aspect. The wand may be shorter than the Cuisinart but I do one of these two things and it solves the problem. I have a metal frothing pitcher and I just tip it(I don't fill it to more than 1/4 to 1/3)! Or, I move the machine to the edge of the sink with the wand over the sink space which gives me even more room. Neither is a big deal to prepare a great froth. And, the adjustable steam knob at the top allows me to produce the froth quickly or slowly, but after making two cups of cappuccino, I figured it out! Much better than the Cuisinart froth. Also, I have a separate tamp that I use(I do not use pods) and I always have dry grounds when I dispose of them by just lightly tamping; but that also comes with practice.I have not had any leakage or water coming from anywhere. This is an absolutely great "little"(and it is petite!) machine for the money. Who knows how long it will produce but my past experience with Cuisinart is a year. Plus, Cuisinart's answer to customer service on a machine still under warranty is to have YOU ship a 20# machine back to them with trackable packaging and insurance(at your expense). Oh, and you need to include a personal check for $15.00 to allow them to ship another one back to you. Not high on my list of problem solving! My first Cuisinart quit pumping; the second blew the frothing wand right out of the machine(a plastic housing was cracked and broken-but not a replacement part item) into the hot milk. Fortunately, I wasn't burned.aFinally, I am stating that is a great little machine for the money. If you read consumer reports and other reviews on various machines, you'll get the picture!


