1357603200
4.0
review/summary: This is a guitar players dream!review/text: I have tried numerous humidifiers in my music room, where it is critical that I maintain 40-50% humidity to protect my guitar collection. I used to buy Hunter Humidifiers with "Lifetime" filters. I tended to burn out one a year, and struggled to maintain adequate humidity. The filters got loaded with gunk, no matter how often I cleaned them and the water tray got filthy fast. After burning out my fourth unit in 6 years (and I was stupid not to keep copies of my receipts to take advantage of the 5 year warranty), I decided I needed something better. Enter the Honeywell HCM-6009. First-off, the unit is larger and thus floor mounted - not an issue for me. The two water tanks makes it easier to keep it going, but as others have said, the attractive, yet impractical top to the tanks does not allow you to set the tank down while you fill it. You have to hang on to it while it is filling. I have worked out over time how to balance it on my feet to keep it level while I try and screw on the caps, but I'm always afraid that it will fall and spill 1 1/2 gallons of water all over my bathroom floor. In my mind, this is the only shortcoming of this unit and the only reason I gave this unit 4 stars instead of 5. It seems so minor an issue, but a major PIA every time I fill the tanks.Another terrific design element is that unlike the Hunter, which has to pump water up into a tray to flow through the filter, this unit only pumps air. The motor doesn't come into contact with water so there is no corrosion or "gunk" developing to clog up the unit. The water flows from the tanks into a tray in which an absorbent filter rests. the filter wicks up the water and air is pumped through the wet filter to push humidity into the air. It appears to have a much greater capacity for delivering humidity compared to others I've used. The filter also collects some dust, dirt etc from the air - a good thing. Rinsing and soaking the filter can help remove these impurities. Again, as others have said, you should flip the filter periodically to ensure it stays wet and pliable. I flip the filter every morning and night and maybe once a week I let it run dry so I can wash out the tray and soak the filter in the sink (cold water - please. Filters seem to last a couple months - if I am good about flipping them. The other issue I've read about is noise, but I keep mine on the low setting (sometimes medium) and it is really pretty quiet. If I'm recording I shut it off completely, but otherwise it is not an issue. If you really need to maintain humidity, this may be the one you need.


