1344470400
5.0
review/summary: Just put a dish drainer under it and remove the valve below filterreview/text: My wife loves the coffee and the coffeemaker (she picked it), and has mastered using it, though even she admits to having no mechanical aptitude.These consumer products are never foolproof, and never will be because consumers will never pay ten times the price for the necessary triple-redundant over-engineered product.We have had a few spills, each due to a different mistake, but the cleanup was easy because we were expecting a spill or two. Every time you have a spill involving coffee grounds, you must make sure the grounds have been completely removed from the coffee path including inside the carafe lid.Once, the filter paper was misplaced so water ran outside the filter. Flow was slow enough to overflow the basket and spill grounds. Once the coffee was ground so fine that it clogged the filter. Once the filter basket wasn't closed properly. Once the lid was cross threaded. The "Brew-pause" valve never got clogged because I removed it upon receipt.We did several things to avoid coffee on the counter and floor:First we put a dish drainer under the coffeemaker (Rubbermaid Antimicrobial Large Dish Drainer, Black) leading into the sink. You really need this if you are using the timer.If you can't put it next to the sink, you need a 12 x 9 container and some legs that will stay reliably in place under the coffeemaker. Such as a $6.61 with free shipping flat bottomed baking pan (Wilton Recipe Right 13 x 9 Inch Oblong Pan, plastic boxes cost more), and some scrap objects (bottle caps, tea candles, sliced bars of soap, cut off soft plastic bottles, lego blocks, those plastic tripods that come in pizza boxes) that are about an inch tall. Make sure the combination fits in the intended place, and that the legs are less than 1/8 inch below the water level from a full carafe.Second, who needs to pour out a cup of coffee before brewing is finished? Remove that stupid valve at the bottom of the filter cone (the coffee has no trouble finding its way from the bottom of the cone into the carafe). Pull the silicone rubber disk off the black plastic stem, and remove the disk, stem, and spring. Save them if you are a hoarder. The valve is only present because people compare a checklist of features with other coffeemakers and don't buy the one lacking a feature.Third, everybody will sometimes cross-thread the carafe lid. To avoid this, put the lid on, and rotate it counterclockwise until it clicks down. Then rotate clockwise until it stops. Then triple check: the arrow should point to "Pour". This method of avoiding cross threading works for almost every threaded object you will encounter, except for fans, which have left-handed threads. (The other two words on the lid apply to the arrows: "Open" is beside the counterclockwise arrow, and "Close" is beside the clockwise arrow.)


