1357171200
4.0
review/summary: Love it! - Makes Great Popcorn, But Treat It Gently!review/text: This is essentially a popcorn maker which simulates the exact system larger "theater-style" poppers use. Inside the popper there is a small rotating arm which constantly lifts the popped kernels off the bottom to prevent them from burning while the uncooked corn remains on the bottom of the pan until it pops. The two major differences are 1) this is hand cranked, not machine cranked and because of that 2) the mechanism for stirring the popcorn is consumer grade instead of industrial grade. The heavier arms of the industrial poppers allow the popped corn to be forced out of the pan into the holding chamber below as it pops, thus allowing far more corn to be popped in a single batch.I read many of the reviews for this product before I purchased it. Most of the negative reviews deal with the seemingly fragile gear system which turns the popping arm. These reviews are justified, the plastic gears do seem to be a needlessly cheap part of the system, but using some common sense will prevent many problems. You will learn after two or three pans of popcorn how much corn to use. Because the popped corn stays in the pan (unlike the industrial popper) you absolutely cannot allow this to become packed full of popped corn to the point where you are forcing the stirring arm in any way thus potentially stripping the gears. You can prevent damage by taking a moment to empty part of the batch before returning it to the heat source or by using an amount of unpopped corn which when fully popped will allow some movement for the arm inside the pan. We found this amount to be an excellent two person serving.When the pan is working as it should and the ingredients are properly measured, you will be amazed at how good the popcorn is. If your normal procedure for popping corn is putting it in a pan and start shaking the pan, you will immediately notice the difference in the taste of the popped corn (and how much less work it is). Since the popper works best on medium heat with a smaller amount of oil, the popcorn seems less tough and oily than the pan shaking method. We do like microwave popcorn but you have to eat it kind of fast because it starts cooling off and the oils and seasonings start to thicken on the popped corn. This popper solves both those problems.Of course, garbage in garbage out, if you are not using good popcorn you won't get great results. Many in these reviews recommend a higher grade of popcorn and I agree. The price difference is not that much and totally worth it.The pan is pretty easy to clean, you really only need to rub it out with paper towel or something like that. The lid mechanism can be difficult to get completely clean because there are so many gears, small edges and corners, but again, you really only need to wipe them down.If it were not for the cheapness of the gear system (which apparently used to be different) and the difficulty of cleaning the lid, I would give this popper 5 stars. It does make really good popcorn just treat it gently.


