1345507200
4.0
review/summary: I own both this Priemier model and the Elite; like this one much better!review/text: I've owned three different Cuisinart food processer models: I started out with the Classic a long time ago, then gave it to my daughter for her first apartment.I bought this Premier model to replace the Classic. I loved this processor--until the motor burned up one day in the month of October....I sent it in to be repaired, but found out there was no hope of getting it back before the holidays. Well, I got angry about that; I needed something to use during the holidays!So I went and splurged and bought an Elite, thinking bigger was better. And I was so angry about the Premier, I didn't care if I ever got it back! Plus, I thought a new design would be a better design. I also thought I would like the Elite because it came with two stacked bowls.Cuisinart finally sent me a replacement Premier about three months after I sent it to them for repair--actually I can't tell if it's my old one with a new motor, or a new appliance altogether....Since I now had the Elite, I put the Premier on the side for safe-keeping. Now, I'm very glad I did!Why? Because I gave the Elite a lot of jobs to do, but I never could quite get used to the bulkiness and height of it. Plus, it was never easy for me to disengage the one bowl from the other. And I struggled to find a managable place for the diffferent blades for the different bowls. And, I REALLY DID NOT LIKE how crumbs always got stuck in the rim.The Elite is now up in the attic, waiting for the right person to come along so I can gift it to them. The Premier is back on the counter. For me, it was a drastic move to put that more expensive Elite away... So you've got to know that I thought long and hard about the switch out.I knocked the rating down one star because that first Premier was not leak-proof; even though I did not overload the machine, liquid still got to the motor. Also, I feel repair-service response-time and customer service in general was very poor in my experience.


