1350604800
5.0
review/summary: Presto 6-Qt stainless steel pressure cookerreview/text: I've owned and used a 4 quart pressure cooker for 38 years and have been delighted that parts are still easy to get for it. So when I decided that I needed increased cooking capacity, I was happy to see that the current models are similar to the one that I bought in 1974.The cooker is pretty much what you need to cook with little more, no basket you might find convenient for jars used for canning. Other models specifically for canning have this. It is, however, well designed for cooking and the design well executed. The handles (there are three) are not attached but are easily assembled using 5 phillips screws. I used some heat resistant anti-seize compound sparingly on the threads. The same as I use on the spark plugs in my car. The handles on my old 4 quart cooker are slightly loose but the screws are hopelessly seized, despite being made from stainless steel.The handle and helper handle on the opposing side is just right for managing it on the range. The low aluminum rack, called a trivet, has not changed at all, it allows the food to sit above the water in the bottom and prevents it from burning. The pressure regulator has changed little and the over-pressure emergency relief plug is the same, except that the poppet valve is now incorporated with the lid pressure interlock. The poppet valve allows steam to escape until the rate is high enough to close the valve and seal the cooker allowing the pressure to begin building. The lid interlock prevents the lid from being opened when the pot is pressurized. This strikes me as a redundant feature since it is almost impossible to open the lid when even it is under even a small amount of pressure, but I guess someone has done it. Consequently, with the safety interlock, closing the lid must be done with a little more care than on my old cooker which did not have it. It just takes a little more attention to alignment. The lid sealing ring is thinner, but is actually easier to grease and install in the lid. Finally, the gauge of the stainless steal is exactly as thick as my older 4 quart cooker although it appears thinner. The sides, lid, and bottom of the older models are uniform thickness and are heavy enough to spread heat evenly. This cooker now has a layer of aluminum to help spread the heat evenly across the bottom of the pot. This layer is clad in stainless steel, so all exposed surfaces, most importantly, the bottom, are stainless steel. The pot and lid are highly polished, but the bar code sticker was a little difficult to get off the side. There are indented markings at the levels of 1/2 and 2/3 capacity which are visible on the inside and outside of the pot, a nice addition.The inside dimensions are 8 1/2 inches in diameter and 6 1/4 inches deep same diameter as my 4 quart and about 2 1/4 inches deeper.I cooked a 15 lbs pumpkin using it an my old 4 quart in parallel (cooking several pots in each cooker) and I'm with happy with the results. Despite the extra complication of the lid interlock it proved easy to operate and the thinner seal seems less likely to leak as sometime happens with the older cooker.While I was a little put off by the lighter-looking gauge metal (actually the same thicknes) and leery of the complication of the lid-interlock, after using it I was very pleased to see that Presto is still maintaining excellence in design and construction of a classic cooking utensil whose basic utility is often overlooked in today's gadget filled kitchen. I can do things with a pressure cooker which cannot be done with a microwave!


