1354924800
3.0
review/summary: I named him Lloydreview/text: Not that such things really should matter to you, but I thought you should know.Lloyd has a few problems.Like the part where only one of his eye sockets actually visibly expresses the mist. Why is that? They're both there, it's not like one is clogged somehow, but only the left hand one. Weird. Also, can we please think about the fact that the dragon humidifier has mist coming out of the top of its eyes and not oh say...its nostrils? The penguin gets mist out of its beak. Why not the dragon?The light when you turn it on at night is super bright too. Super. Bright. I currently have things taped over it, but I'm not sure how long that'll hold.It will drop the temperature in your room. I have a fairly averaged sized room that this is in, and I bought Lloyd because it gets really dry in here during the winter and I don't know about you, but I don't like to blow my nose and then have it bleeding everywhere. Whenever I turn the dragon on, it becomes not a cool mist, but rather a "may as well have put the fan on, huh?" sort of deal. You might be thinking, "well, turn it down then" and that's the weird part because it's probably about a quarter of the way turned up in the first place. I don't want to think about what sort of frozen wasteland I might wake up to coughing and groggy and sneezing everywhere if I cranked that thing to full or even half. No siree.People are also talking about how quiet it is, and I don't actually feel like that's true either. Mine's pretty loud, like box fan on low kind of loud. That was a pro for me though, because I was glad to be able to put away the box fan and still have the white noise so I could sleep properly.It's a pretty okay thing for the most part. Nothing to be thrilled about. Cute, mostly functional, a conversation piece, a big mess trying to empty out and refill the water tank and then get it seated properly again and....Yeah, going back I wouldn't buy this again. I'm glad I don't have kids. I wouldn't want this anywhere near them...teaching them such wrong things about dragon physiology. Tsk Tsk, Crane. Tsk. Tsk.


