1354320000
5.0
review/summary: Great purchase.review/text: We bought this in August 2012 and it is now December 2012. After 4 months of use, it is still going quite strong and looks new.My wife and I purchased this in hopes of incorporating it into a weekly routine and possibly going through a juice fast. While the juice fast was short-lived, it has been used almost daily and sometimes several times within a day as a meal replacement.Cleaning couldn't be simpler. I tried running it through the dishwasher a few times, but came to the realization that is so much easier and quicker to simply wash it right after use. Since it is simply vegetables and fruits being put into it and it is rinsed right after finishing juicing a liter, rinsing is literally all that has to be done to clean all the pulp off. I recommend wiping whatever gets stuck to the lid of the clear section of the catch, into the bin just to ease your sink drainage. The bin I always line with a grocery bag (like you would do a trash can) and then I simply pull it out and throw it away. Some people recommend even keeping the catch-pulp and baking it for further use, but I have not tried it. The only section that takes more effort than a rinse is the actual centrifugal mesh filter. I apply minimal dish soap to the inside of it, and with running water I scrub(with the brush given) in circular motions on the metal mesh while slowly turning it in my hand. This cleans it out almost completely. On the back side occasionally there are veggies like carrots left towards the mesh seal, but that again is cleaned by just a circular motion with the brush while water is running on it.If you juice anything with fruit in it, (and perhaps even not), I would recommend squirting a little bit of lemon juice into the mixture just to keep more freshness to it. I also wouldn't save juice for longer than 24 hours. Thicker skins like those with oranges are the only ones I've peeled, the rest I just ensure seeds aren't going into the juicer. It can take seeds, but there are other chemicals (I won't bore you with the info) in the seeds I'd prefer not to drink.All-in-all this was a great purchase and I would do so again.


