1352764800
5.0
review/summary: Makes eating healthy so much Fun!!!review/text: I love this little machine! Tonight we made spaghetti...but with Zucchini instead of pasta. (See my instructions for making zucchini 'pasta' below) It was delicious and healthy too! It was so simple to use, and just as easy to clean. Because it is not electric I was able to just dip the whole machine in the sink full of dishwater to thoroughly clean every nook and cranny.The blades are super sharp and make quick work of slicing, dicing, curling your veggies. My grandkids are visiting this weekend and I cannot wait to let them help me make 'healthy' curly fries (baked in the oven). They are going to love using this machine because it is a lot like using their playdoh machines...well as much fun at least. I just have to watch the sharp blades while they crank the handle.I would have given this machine 10 stars if I could...its my new favorite kitchen appliance! This would also be a wonderful gift for a Vegetarian or Gluten Intolerant friend or family member.To make Zucchini 'Spaghetti' just use the smallest spiral blade. Cut the ends off each Zucchini and put one cut end on the spikes of the crank handle end, and push the other end up against the blade and begin turning the crank. (you may want to cut the zucchini in to two pieces if they are too long) After you get the amount of 'pasta' that you want (approx 1 medium zucchini per person worked for us), just place it in a colander that is placed over a large bowl or in the sink, and salt it, toss it, salt it some more until you have pretty much got some salt on most of the zucchini. Then let it sit for 15-20 minutes. This will cause much of the water in the zucchini to weep out and the 'pasta' will take on a limp noodle look to it. I heated my favorite spaghetti sauce while the zucchini was soaking in the salt. When my sauce was ready, I ran hot tap water over the 'pasta' to rinse off all remaining salt. Then place the individual serving sizes of 'pasta' onto each plate. You will have to cut or break the serving sizes because the 'pasta' is one or two LONG strips. Then top the 'pasta' with your hot sauce, sprinkle with Parmesan Cheese if you like, and serve it up.


