1350345600
5.0
review/summary: Very Efficient & Effective Humidifierreview/text: I looked at many different models of humidifiers before settling on this one and purchasing it and it has definitely exceeded expectations in regard to what I want and need in a humidifier. Its large capacity water tanks make for less times per week of filling it up. The two reservoir tanks make it very convenient when filling because since you can leave one in place on the humidifier you do not have to turn it off when refilling it. I have found that it does not empty the tanks evenly as it runs but empties one tank and them moves on to the other one after the first is empty. So this makes it to where when you check on how empty it is by just gently lifting the handle of each tank to see if they are very light indicating that they are empty or very close to it. Then you just grab the empty one and refill is while there is one tank absent and the other is still making the machine run without interruption. This feature makes it much easier to gauge how much water is in it at any given time. Also, this unit automatically powers down when both tanks become empty so that it does not just run and run with no water in it and damage itself. The last two humidifiers I have had that were Vick's brand did not have this automatic feature and it made it to where you had to watch it on a regular basis to make sure it was not running with no water in the reservoir. The controls on this unit are very accessible, straightforward, and are marked very clearly for quick adjustments to the settings. The two control knobs and all indicators are on the top of the unit so you can easily see them and adjust them.This Honeywell unit is large and that makes for bigger and better venting of the discharged humidified air so that it does its job much more effectively. And even with it being a bigger and heavier unit, the fact that it has casters on it makes moving it around as easy as can be. This also allows for moving it to a workable are easily when it is time to clean it. The filter is very effective and since it can be rinsed out once and reused it makes it to where you do not have to buy a new filter every time it gets a bit dirty. So, given that, you only have to replace it every other time of cleaning the unit. I am the type that is very meticulous about keeping machinery, appliances, and other devices very clean because it makes them last longer and work more efficiently. This unit is a snap to clean because the entire top comes off along with the two reservoir tanks so that you can put the base in the dishwasher lying flat on the bottom rack and let the dishwasher disinfect and really clean it well. Then when you put it back together it is so easy because there are no screws or fasteners that have to be taken out or disengaged to take it apart for cleaning. The device housing and two reservoir tanks just lift off for easy access to the base tray for cleaning. The design and style of this unit makes it to where it is not unsightly but actually is very graceful and attractive when in any room. It is not like some of the other humidifiers that are on the market that are so ugly and unattractive that you would rather keep it hidden to where it is out of sight.The machine does have a level of operating sound coming from it when running, but it actually is a pleasant and even sound that is not a nuisance to the ears and is not so loud that you have to turn the TV up in the room with the humidifier to be able to hear it. My overall view of this unit is that it is the best humidifier that I have ever owned and I am very happy to have taken the time to really check out a lot of different humidifiers online before purchasing this one. The time and effort spent researching and comparing really paid off. I would recommend this humidifier to anyone that needs one for office or household use.


