1349654400
5.0
review/summary: Best brewing system by one of the best companiesreview/text: I'm reviewing this particular model of Keurig brewers because this is the one I own, but if you are reading this and are trying to decide for yourself which Keurig to buy, let me tell you, you cannot go wrong with ANY Keurig brewer. For the price, and depending on what you want, your expectations are going to not only be met, but exceeded. This particular brewer is ideal because it has the three cup sizes, is ready for the water filter kit, and in most cases, comes with the My K-cup option for making your own k-cups.While Keurig brewers have few flaws in my opinion, there are occasional annoyances that can occur if they are not properly maintained (don't know how to maintain your brewer? Go to Keurig.com and there are several videos that will show you). If you know you have hard water, it is in your best interest to buy the water filter kit, or to only put filtered water in your Keurig's water resevoir. Descaling, if done regularly, will keep the brewer in top condition, but lagging in this area will result in slow brew times and clogging in the water lines.If this has happened to you, there is a positive side to owning a Keurig brewer, even one that is broken or malfunctioning. Keurig's customer service is unparalleled in satisfaction as far as I am concerned. When my Keurig started to brew slowly (or not at all) a customer service rep was on the phone with me at 6 a.m. and walked me through fixing my Keurig. Recently, I called because the k-cup holder inside the brewer broke (I broke it on accident) and I was going to order a replacement. The customer service rep noticed that I had called previously and asked if I was still experiencing slow brew times. I said yes and instead of replacing the k-cup holder, she offered to send a replacement brewer, AT NO COST TO ME. The best part? I was outside my one-year warranty. She acknowledged this but stated that she did not want me to continue to have these issues. Literally, no fuss, no muss. The hardest part of that experience was dialing the phone number.As I said before, you cannot go wrong with any Keurig brewer you purchase. If you maintain the machine properly, you will have it for a long time. And if any problems arise, regardless of what it is, Keurig will do whatever necessary to make sure that you are 100% satisfied with their product. There are few brewing companies, and fewer companies in general, that can claim to uphold such high customer service standards.


