1345680000
5.0
review/summary: Simple, Elegant, and AWESOME!review/text: First of all, I won this item on a penny auction site but it was shipped to me directly from Amazon! It arrived in one day! :)This Cuisinart looks great in the kitchen! Very stylish design! It worked perfectly the first time I tried it which was today using a variation on one of the recipes that comes with the instruction booklet! We were all so thrilled with the quality of the ice cream and the taste! We ate some and then placed the rest in an air-tite container in the freezer to enjoy later! And yes, I was able to make the ice cream in about 30 minutes so there is truth in advertising with this fine product! You MUSt freeze the freezer bowl overnight as this is key. And make sure the bowl is pretty much sitting flat in the freezer in an upright position so the freezing liquid in the sides of the bowl freezes evenly.I decided to make the Coffee Ice Cream that is in the manual but without the buttered almonds. I bought some instant mocha cappuccino powder (4 Tablespoons) and also used Kahlua (added 2 tablespoons in the last 5 minutes of churning). And instead of using Whole Milk, I decided to use a combination of Half & Half and Heavy Whipping Cream. I replaced the 1 1/2 cups of milk with 1 1/2 cups of Half & Half. And instead of 3 full cups of Heavy Whipping Cream I used 2 cups of whipping cream and 1 cup of Half & Half. And believe me, this combination worked perfectly! It was so creamy and delicious this way! And yes it is no doubt fattening and rich! But who cares? We are having fun and making tasty homemade ice cream!...LOL...And you can always eat smaller portions anyways! :)For my next batch I plan to make basically the simple vanilla recipe (With my cream / Half & Half modifaction) but add in some tasty fresh blueberry syrup I will cook and make up the day before and then chill before adding to the churning ice cream mixture! I am sure it will be great!Cleanup was very easy! Just be sure to use only plastic utensils with the freezer bowl!This is a fun and great product and I easily award it 5 stars! Enjoy! :)***UPDATE 9/1/12***Ok, I have some good news folks! Do you happen to have a Smart and Final store near where you live? Well if you do, they sell something called MANUFACTURING CREAM which is what restaurants use to make fancy sauces and special desserts. Well this stuff is the perfect substitute for heavy whipping cream and costs only about 60% as much so it is much more economical and it also produces super smooth and creamy ice cream without the need to make those pesky egg based custards!So what I do is this now when I make ice cream:-- 1 1/2 cups of Half & Half (Replaces the Whole milk)-- 2 cups of Manufacturing Cream + 1 cup of Half & Half (Replaces the heavy whipping cream)I honestly do not think you will be disappointed if you use those ingredients. And let it churn for 30-35 minutes as well. Have fun! :)


