1357084800
5.0
review/summary: alternate use - bedside valet/cafe!review/text: Ok, so this might not be it's intended use, but it works great for me in this manner: my nightstand is really far away from the bed, and we often keep our bedroom temp between 65 and 70 deg F in the cooler months. I often wake up in the middle of the night needing a sip of water. Also, like most of us, I like to keep my phone close (but not too close) while I am sleeping - it makes it easier to hit snooze in the am - haha! So, to prevent a chilly trip to the night stand, I use this caddy beside my bed to hold a bottle of water on one end, my phone (in the soap dish part), and pens and misc items on the other end. It's on the side of my bed that only I see. It might look a little tacky to others, so I may be hesitant to use it if it would be in plain sight. Actually, if it's in plain sight, I would just never attach it to the bed (or, if there was no way to). See below. That way, when guests come over, I can just "disassemble" the stand and hide it away until privacy returns.When I first got it, I didn't know if it would work and I was wary of "wasting" the neat-o strips on my "experiment". So, I took an appropriately-sized rectangular box, closed it with the fold-over flap-securing method, put it on its side, and then placed it next to my side of the bed. I then took the caddy and sat it on the "sidewall" of the box (which was now facing up). There are hard plastic fins at the back, which drop below the flat "floor" of the caddy (you can see them in the picture, they look like nubs). These are what help brace it against the wall and give it additional strength against things with strong downward force like full shampoo bottles and stuff. I sandwiched these behind the edge of the box, and my bed-rail (what the mattress sits on), sitting the "floor" of the caddy flat on the sidewall (top) of the box. It gave the caddy excellent stability to hold all of my items securely. I put a 16 oz aquasana glass bottle in there, full of water, every night and sleepily fumble around in the dark to take it out and put it back in and I've never had a problem with it tipping over. Of course, YMMV, and please be sensible when putting items in there and don't use it with fragile heirlooms, or over a crib, and all that common-sense stuff...But, it works great for me and bonus: if my needs change, I can use it at the office, in the laundry room, in a closet, and yes, even in the shower!I've also used several of the other 3M Command Strip products and have always been very satisfied with their functionality.I rely on reviews to help me make informed buying decisions. I hope this review helped you in the same manner! :)


