1344816000
5.0
review/summary: Couldn't live without thisreview/text: I chose this pressure cooker because it's the only kind of pressure cooker I've had experience using, it is stainless steel (non reactive, heavy weight), it was less expensive than more modern incarnations of pressure cookers (electric countertop, stove non jiggle top), and the reviews and follow up comments were helpful in convincing me that this was a quality product.The reviews praise the quality construction of this cooker and I couldn't agree more. I have used both natural pressure release and the method to speed it up by sticking the cooker in the sink and running cold water from the faucet over it (it takes all of 20 seconds and doesn't have to be so complicated as making an ice bath for it in the sink). I have never seen any signs of the metal layers splitting, the pot warping, and there has been no denting from handling and washing. The 6-quart capacity is enough for me and my husband to have soup with some left over for lunch or another soup dinner, but not so much that we're sick of eating the same thing.If you are trying to decide whether to get a pressure cooker in general, I would encourage you to go for it. Most weeknights, I am too impatient to wait for time-intensive things like tomato sauce, stew meat, root veggies cut into chunks, lentils, risotto, or even just tender cabbage. Pressure cookers prepare these things quickly and make them taste like they've been cooking forever. Most of the pressure cooker recipes I use take 30-40 minutes total for prep and cook (I usually make soup in this cooker), so it's become a life saver when I come home from work late.If you already know you want a pressure cooker but are trying to decide what type to get, I would say that I don't mind the simplicity of this cooker. Normally the justification to get a product that is the "latest and greatest" is that you are certain it will get a lot of use so you might as well spend the extra money for extra features that possibly save you time. This basic model is fine for weekly use in my household. I am definitely curious about newer types of cookers, but personally wasn't ready to pay more money for something I wasn't sure I would need.


