1356134400
5.0
review/summary: Still amazed!review/text: After researching the many available makes/models of breadmakers, we finally ordered the Panasonic SD-YD250 based on product features, longevity of the machine (apparently on the market over 10 years), the price, and the high number/proportion of favorable reviews on Amazon. We received it about three weeks ago and so far have baked three loavesAs a starter, we decided to follow the instruction manual's EXACT recipe for whole wheat; in doing so, we could evaluate the machine without confusing matters by using a &#34;non-authorized&#34; recipe. The result was perfect in every way, so we knew the machine did work as advertized. The most pleasant surprise was the absolute ease and simplicity: you just place the ingredients in the pan, shut the lid, add yeast to the little trap door on top, and turn on the machine.... five hours later you have a perfectly baked bread. There is no need to get your hands or cookware dirty, inspect if the dough is rising properly, and all the other little concerns when you bake by hand. And when finished, the cleanup is practically not worth mentioning; It's not much more than rinsing out the pan and takes about 90 seconds!For our second effort we followed my wife's wholewheat recipe. While not radically different from that of the manufacturer, it does exclude certain ingredients while adding others. To our great satisfaction, it came our perfectly.For our third effort, we again baked my wife's recipe; but for this attempt, we decided to try the timer feature. We placed all ingredients into the pan at 10:40 PM and set the timer to finish baking at exactly 9:00 AM the following morning (Saturday... we like to sleep late)! Sure enough, as advertized, by 8:30 or thereabouts we awoke to the mouthwatering fragrance of freshly baking bread. And at exactly 9:00 (to the minute!), the buzzer sounded, indicating that the bread was done. And for the third time, we found ourselves enjoying a PERFECT loaf of bread.I am trying to think of anything that I DISKLIKE about this machine but am unable to come up with a single criticism. I would recommend this breadmaker to anyone, since it has the flexibility to bake not just the manufacturer's recipes but individualized ones as well. For the price, I think it is an amazingly good purchase and look forward to many delicious breads. As an additional benefit, I have estimated a cost savings of $4.00 per loaf as compared to purchasing readymade gourmet loaves from a bakery. Therefore, the machine should pay for itself after about 30 loaves.


