1355875200
5.0
review/summary: Wowreview/text: Been drinking Starbucks French roast at home for some time yet it left me wanting. First cup (3-4 oz) from this incredible machine produced velvety smooth coffee something I always has to go out of the house to procure. The instructions by past users helped the first time around as the included instructions are very basic.I am using with a ceramic top stove and have set 7 with the lid open to watch progress and then close and move off burner when it is close to done as the process continues on its own for a moment.Just wonderful full flavored coffee, three cheers!Will update to 5 stars if it holds up to extensive use.Jan 2013Been using the 3 cup for a few months and have to say I feel very comfortable with changing my rating to five stars.Besides being fun to use this little "moka" pot produces some tasty coffee. I read quite a few different reviews and found one that was extensive and very instructional. I agree that you should take your time at lower heat as I have experimented with both high and low heat and found the lower heat provides the sweeter brew. I now set my burner on 6 which takes a little longer yet produces a fine cup of coffee. I remove the pot from the burner as soon as i hear the first gurgle as this will continue on its own for a moment. I also agree that if you don't have access to a grinder that the illy moka is an outstanding coffee for first timers. Grind is important as the grind for this moka pot is between esspresso and drip albeit closer to esspresso so you should experiment with settings. I would suggest you try your local coffee shops for a bold coffee as this has worked best for me. I have read a review where the user saw flaking or deterioration of the boiler, this I believe is indicative of someone that is leaving moisture in the boiler for extended periods of time. I have seen no problems with my unit and have only rinsed the pot after use and let air dry.I am going to purchase the larger size pot either 6 or 9 cup as I like to drink more than the small size allows. If anyone has had experience using these I would appreciate an update in the reviews.


