1346284800
5.0
review/summary: Looks chunky, but works greatreview/text: Solid glass and blocky shape make this the perfect refrigerator pitcher. I was a little nervous after reading some reviews, but it arrived in perfect condition. The lid is a little tricky at first, but once you get the hang of it, it's dead simple. It works like this:The lid has a moving center piece surrounded by the plastic and rubber seal. Hold the outer (serrated) part and twist the center part to the left to open, twist to the right to seal (lefty-loosy, righty-tighty). You don't have to twist it very far to open or close, but out of the box it's pretty jammed in there. If you don't steady the outer part, you can occasionally get the lid to spin around the glass mouth of the pitcher (especially if you've just poured something and the lip is wet).Here are the things I really like about it:1. It's really compact for how much liquid it holds. 77.75 oz isn't small, but the pitcher is surprisingly little. It can do this as a result of its boxy design.2. The boxy shape is really perfect for sitting in the fridge. It's not too tall, which means it fits really easily into your top shelf.3. No joke, it really seals. It's awesome for drinks that need to be mixed. Hold it securely and shake it and it mixes beautifully.4. Some people have commented on the handle. If you have larger hands, you may well have trouble with it. The length of the handle combined with the space between the handle and the pitcher may pose a problem. Happily, we are a family of small and average sized hands, so we do just fine.5. The pitcher is very easy to clean. Again, it comes back to the shape.While initially I wasn't too wowed by the look of this pitcher (it certainly isn't very pretty), it's simplicity of form and function have completely won me over, and I love it. It makes sense. The lid, the shape, the height, it all works. So while it may not win any beauty contests at first glance, this pitcher in all its substance and practicality will completely steal your heart.


