1356307200
3.0
review/summary: not really what I expectedreview/text: I bought this thinking that it would be convenient. It was sort of. I guess it did what it was supposed to do, it was fast, it was really hot, it didn't take those expensive coffee pods. I just didn't like the flavor of the coffee as well as I do my Black and Decker coffee maker that has A insulated carafe. by brewing a pot in my carafe suse about the same amount of coffee but get a much fuller flavor hand about the same amount of work. As far as the warranty I am sure they would have given my money back but a friend wanted to try it so I just gave it to him. As far as that goes Amazon would have given my money back. But for what I paid for it it didn't really seem like it was worth it. As for quality I cannot complain it does everything it said it would. The coffee just did not taste very good to me, I think it just brewed too fast for the flavor to be as good as a fully brewed pot. the 1 thing I really did like about it was the insulated Cup and the fact that it was really hot. Had it been a little slower brewing I believe I would have liked it. As it was the coffee just tasted funny, I guess if you want a good cup of coffee 1 at a time you will just have to pay for those expensive little 1 at a time pouches. I still stand buy Black and Decker, this wasn't a very good product but I am sure they would have stood by it. I had a plugin flashlight one time that was 4 years old and it had a 5 year guarantee and all they made me do was send them the plug after I cut it off the cord and they sent me a brand new 1. I have had many other good experiences with them and the person that wrote the bad review just must not have spoken to the right person. I would not recommend this to a friend, that's why when he wanted to try it I just gave it to him. that way there can be no hard feelings if he doesn't like it. Bottom line, save your money on this 1 if you like good strong coffee. Fredtplease excuse some of the grammar and punctuation mistakes. I dictated this on my Samsung pad and sometimes it doesn't understand my perfect English. Didn't want those if you reading my prose to think I was illiterate. Thanks for your replies Fred T


