1344902400
3.0
review/summary: So far NOTso good!review/text: I have had this for about a month now. It arrived quickly and without damage and was easy to put together folowing the instructions. I hate to admit it but I think it works better than my Bissel Pro Heat 2x and I had that for over 5 years. This is admittedly smaller than my Bissel but it makes up for lack of size with some serious suction power! It's also lighter making it easier to move around. I think it gets the carpet cleaner and dryer than the Bissel as well. I'm very pleased with it so far.There is one caveat however. It's very VERY LOUD!!!! I have to use ear plugs when I use it and I feel bad for my kitties when it's on.I will try to keep this updated as to how it's wearing. I use it a LOT with so many kitties so it will get lots of use in a short period of time.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Update: 10/23/2012About two weeks ago it suddenly started leaking out all the cleaning solution when I left it sitting for any length of time wheras it did not do this before and when I turned it on to use it wouls spew out a huga amount of cleaning fluid all over the floor making the mess worse! It also got considerably louder! so much so that even with high decible ear plugs it is really unbearable! The handle release button is now broken so moving it around is harder. The machine usually doesn't move more than 10 feet per day but this is irritating considering it's only months old!I use it every single day with so many kitties in the house who see my carpet as their litter box even though I have a ton of boxes! One got sick and started going in spots and suddenly more and more started going there as well. This machine gets a workout but it should have lasted longer than a few months! My Bissel lasted over 5 years! i might just go get my Bissel fixed and go back to that. I'm not very happy with the sever loudness of the machine and that it's already starting to fall apart! That's rediculous! I can't even return it! I changed my star rating from 5 down to 3 and it maybe should go lower!


