1356998400
5.0
review/summary: Perfectreview/text: I'm going to just describe my experience with the product. It started with researching it and comparing it to other humidifiers in the same range($100-$200). One thing I found was that it promised the approx. the same performance as some humidifiers twice its price. This was a concern. Some reviews also mentioned the loudness of the fan and a loud vibration. Here is my experience.Once I got it and opened the box, I had it ready to run in 60 seconds or less(basically snap rollers onto the base) then of course i read the entire manual. For my own germaphobe reasons I rinsed everything with bleach water(lol). Once I turned it on I put it on high and it was louder than I expected it to be. This is hard to describe but for anyone who games on their pc is about as loud as when your video card fan kicks into high because your playing a game on max graphics and its hot in the room. To others I would say its about as loud as a circular fan on high or a box fan on low. I won't lie, its louder than you would think it should be. You can delete (Loudness) from your list of cons though and I'll tell you why. The only thing I can think the high setting would be for is when you first turn it on to help get your house humidified. I used the high setting anytime I didnt mind the loudness(when i was gone, listening to music etc) and for like 2-3 days it never turned off and I was refilling the tanks about every hour or so. I thought I had made a huge mistake and bought the wrong size. My house is about 3x the recommended sq ft anyways I just bought it thinking well it will be better than nothing. On the third day of running it on high I woke up the next morning and my windows were soaking wet, literally puddles on the window sills and floor beneath them.After some research I found out that because I hadn't already been running a humidifier my furniture,bedding,walls etc were all very dry, and they were absorbing all the moisture, they had finally got their fill and now the high setting was massive overkill. Long story short, high will help you get your dry house up to a comfortable humidity level faster at first, after that you will NEVER use it again. First 3 days, I ran on high non stop refilling the tanks every hour or so. SINCE THEN...I never take it off low, I refill the tanks once in the afternoon, and then once at night(because it turns off when it runs out of water). It has 2 tanks which is awesome because it uses one of them at a time. Once one is empty just refill it during the time the other is being drained, allowing the humidifier to run without ever stopping. They are very easy to carry and even though the side that you have to set them down on is angled it doesn't fall over for me so I just set it in the sink turn on the water and go make some coffee or whatever while it fills. When you put the tanks back on though, if you don't do it just right they will barelly touch each other causing a loud vibration. After about two weeks I got the feel for it and i just drop them right on into perfection but for about 2 weeks it was annoying and I would have to gently move the tank around or knock the unit to get the vibration to stop. You will get a feel for it though so don't be to bothered by this, it won't haunt you forever.I've used the protec cartridges. They do work, for about a month you will never have to clean the tanks which is convenient. I stopped buying them though. This is what I do(again because im a freak about germs :S). Because the humidifier can keep running off one tank with one removed for hours, every 4-5 days or so when one tank goes empty i go fill it with water, add 2 tbsp regular bleach, shake it up and let it sit for 15-20 mins(meanwhile humidifier is working happily =D ). Rinse it out til you can't smell bleach, fill it back up, drop it back on. Once the other goes empty do the same to it. Once a week or so I also let both tanks go empty, then rinse the base with bleach and soak the filter in a sink of regular cool water for 5 or so mins. This might seem like too much for some and its not necessary but it gives me peace of mind about germs and it keeps the unit looking brand new. If you don't mind the price though the protec cartidges do work exactly like they say they will.The filters are lasting me 2-3 weeks tops. That is a con for me but my water here is insanely hard and I turn the filter over once a day to keep the calcium from ruining it. The only true CON to me is the scam &#34;AIRWASHING TECHNOLOGY&#34;. Let me tell you what this is. It's the filter.... thats it, its a filter. While this is obvious to alot of people, I'm so tired of seeing something &#34;technology&#34;. In my opinion its just a scam to try to sell a product, by this logic then my heater filter is &#34;AIRCLEANING TECHNOLOGY&#34;, which it is, but its pretty clear that these are just marketing scams when they try to glorify the word &#34;filter&#34;. Anyways that has nothing to do with the product just a minor annoyance because I hate marketing scams. The filter does work though and its nice to go to change it out and see the thing just covered in all kinds of dirt, hair etc. Reminds you that its doing more than just humidifying.In short, I don't think you can beat this product for its price. My house is much much larger than this is meant for and after getting the house up to humidity it is always on low(very quiet) and turns it self off several times a day because it is easily keeping the humidity to what I have it set to. I haven't felt a drop of static electricity, and I've had 2 colds that I barely noticed. After owning this for about 2 months I bought 2 more for xmas for family members. I can say with confidence there will be very few that don't fall in love with this thing and won't want to live winters without it. Forgive my typing, I'm not going to spell/grammar check :S


