1351209600
5.0
review/summary: Wow! This Baby Worksreview/text: Good Deal and an Amazing JuicerI pickup up this Breville Ikon juicer as an Amazon Warehouse return deal. It arrived looking brand new except for a reduced size Xeroxed owner's manual. (If you want a readable full-size manual, you can download or print the .pdf file from Breville web site.) So far, I'm impressed (including by the oversized carton that Amazon shipped the heavy Ikon juicer inside its very protective Breville packaging.)Easy to Assemble:This unit is very well built and very easy to assemble (and clean). The included brush works great on the unit's internal mesh screen.Daily Use:The wide feed tube allows the use of lots of who fruit as it minimizes your pre-cutting. I usually just whack off stems before I drop fresh fruit into the hopper.At it's top speed (high RPM) for hard fruits and veggies, it sounds like a Nascar track. At low speeds (low RPM) for soft fruit, it is quiet. It's nice that you can adjust the speed while the unit is on.Do not mistakenly drop soft fruits or veggies in the Ikon while it is running at high speed, unless you are very fast with re-inserting the feed tube plunger. Otherwise, your fruit becomes shredded fruit lava erupting from the feed tube. It can paint your ceilings!This baby makes juice fast! The waste pulp/fiber is pretty dry.Green, leafy veggies are sometimes not processed completely and may hang around the feedtube/shredder. To get around this, speed up the unit and drop in say a carrot. Your greens will be processed.OK the BJE510XL Works Great, How's the Juice?:In a nut shell, excellent. You'll probably need to hand stir the output juice so that it is mixed instead of layered. High speed use creates a little foam but it is not a problem. (Beer typically has a lot more foam and it doesn't stop you from enjoying that beverage!)Bottom Line - Does it Beat a Vegamatic?The Breville Ikon juicer may not slice and dice (I use a Cuisinart for that) but has a new home on my counter where it gets used every day. Highly recommended! Five stars!


