1356912000
5.0
review/summary: henrietta housewife's brilliant suggestionsreview/text: This is a fine machine for 135.00 If I clean all of my house just once, it will be less than the Rug Doctor rental for 4 days. However, request the help of another person to assemble it EXACTLY.I have a few ideas that will make carpet cleaning a breeze.#1 Go to Walmart and purchase (in the fabric/sewing area)a big sheet of clear plastic and have them cut this for you. This can be recycled later for many other household uses...table cloth, paint tarp, garden protection, messy crafts, jigsaw puzzle keeper, repotting houseplants, on your windshield to avoid scraping of ice and snow, ect. Put this plastic under the area you are wet-vacuuming for floor and splatter protection. My piece was 4 feet by 6 feet. (I should've purchased more considering its potential usefulness around the house.) It's cheap stuff when you consider its later usefulness and protection of hardwood floors. You can also cover the cleaned damp areas if you must walk over them.#2 Get a cheap kitchen sieve (at a garage sale?) and pour out dirty water through the sieve to avoid clogging drains if you cannot dump the dirty water outside. Dump the lint and pet hair in the trash. (Duh!)#3 Have ceiling fans and portble fans ready to reduce drying time, and DO go over the carpet several times (the recommended 2 times is not enough) to insure water is sucked up.#4 Got old rags, linens, socks and underwear and beach towels? Use these to clean up excess water and polish your floors at the same time. Put these cleanup rags on the spin cycle of your washer if they get too wet. You'll not only have clean carpets but also very clean surrounding floor areas (if you are not doing wall to wall carpeting.)#5 Got an old dishpan or kitty-litter-sized box or tray? Use these containers to set the vacuum in if you are concerned about leakage when vac is not in use. (I have lovely hardwood floors and this is a concern of mine.) However, I see no drips from this brand new Hoover.#6 NOTE: I HAVE NOT TRIED THIS YET!!!! A friend suggested I add a bit of non-sudsing LEMON amonia to the cleaning tank. She said she tried it and the rugs were much cleaner and brighter and well-deodorized. I wonder if this would get rid of any dust mites or carpet beetles? I'm going to try this tomorrow but I have inexpensive synthetic carpets and am not recommending this idea to those of you w/ expensive carpeting. Try a patch and let it dry before you decide for yourself. Jeeze. I feel like Heloise!! Hope you like my ideas for this great steam vac.


