1349308800
2.0
review/summary: Falls short in design (this thing leaks!)review/text: I bought this thermos about a month ago. Before I get into the pro's and con's, I want to address the leaking issue. Yes, I followed the instructions by never overfilling and always washing by hand. As a mechanical engineer, I like to see when products are designed with sound principles. Unfortunately, this Thermos falls short.As can be seen from the pictures, there are two pliable "nipples" that seal the drinking hole and vent at the top of the lid. These work very well. The main problem is the interface between the whole lid assembly and the stainless steel body. The lid is threaded onto the body. However, the actually sealing is provided by a beveled (sloped) gasket on the lid that presses against a matching beveled lip on the inside of the stainless body. The threads do not provide the actual sealing. They merely provide the "clamping motion" that presses a sloped gasket against sloped metal lip. This is a flawed design on multiple levels:1) The amount that the gasket can compress onto the lip is limited by the threads. Therefore, if the threads "bottom out", the gasket cannot be compressed further. This principle should be reversed. The amount the lid can be tightened should be limited by the gasket compression (ie. the lid should be tight and become hard to turn when the gasket is compressed, NOT because we "ran out" of threads). This is likely why other users that report leaking do not see improvement by further tightening the lid.2) You are relying on the tolerances of the manufacturer to provide a "just right" seal. If the lip, threads, lid, stainless body, or any combination thereof are slightly off, it results in a variation between thermoses. And due to Point #1, you cannot "over tighten" the lid to compensate for these tolerances. Products that require a tight tolerance (why should a thermos ever require a tight tolerance?) are more sensitive to variations. Therefore, leaking cannot be solely attributed to user error.I cannot understand why Thermos chose to design their lid like this. There are plenty of consumer products that utilize a simple threaded lid that is more forgiving, cheaper to manufacture, and most importantly, LEAKPROOF (think Nalgene bottles, water bottles, any bottle really...).Now, onto the pro's and con's:Pro's:-Keeps hot drinks hot and cold drinks cold, just as advertised. Despite the claims of leaks vs no leaks of other reviews, there is no denying that this Thermos is very effective as an insulator.-The pop top lid works wonderfully and is very convenient. There is also a metal latch that keeps the lid from accidently popping open.Con's:-It leaks (see above)-Does not clean easily. The unnecessarily complicated lid has nooks and crannies behind the seal. If the lid did not leak, the contents would not find its way back there, but since it does leak, they do... Also, the unit is not dishwasher safe. Again, this would not be a problem if the Thermos did not leak.-The lid collects stains and scents. This Thermos is used exclusively for coffee, and in the few weeks that I've had it, any plastic/silicone in contact with the coffee has noticeable discoloration and smells. Since this is mostly superficial and doesn't influence the efficacy of the Thermos, I do not mind so much.Until I find a leak-proof travel mug, I will continue to use but lament this Thermos. I learned the hard way that since this Thermos isn't leak proof, I cannot place it in my briefcase during my morning commute. I must carry it with me, and since coffee will continue to dribble down the side even during a spirited walk, I carry a napkin with me to wipe my hands. When I arrive at my office, it does supply me with piping hot coffee well into the afternoon. However, due to the flawed lid design, I cannot recommend it as a "Backpack Bottle" but rather as a "Very well insulated mug". Does anyone have any suggestions?


