1350864000
5.0
review/summary: This Coffee = Best Coffeereview/text: You know, others have said it more eloquently, but I'll just lay this out: the AeroPress makes the best coffee! I'll just say a couple of things which have been mentioned but are worth reiterating.-The temperature of the water does matter, and it should be hot but not boiling. It is difficult to care much about this at 6:30, so I just wait until a few wisps of steam are coming out of my kettle. That seems to work quite well, although technically it's probably a little hotter than it ought to be.-The coffee scoop is a great measuring device for grounds, as it's meant to be: same number of scoops as the water level marking you're going to use on the AeroPress. Don't skimp on grounds, which is great advice for coffee at all times!-Press the plunger slowly at first, but you can pick up the pace after a few seconds. You'll feel the backpressure reduce once most of the liquid is through.-Cleanup is seriously awesome, compared to either a french press or drip maker. Just twist the cap off and pop the plunger all the way through over the trash can. Rinse the press and cap and set aside. Done!-Related note: drips and spills of coffee made with the AeroPress aren't quite as annoying, at least on non-porous surfaces like a counter, or even a dried-out coffee mug. I think it's because it filters out the particles, leaving pretty much just the water-soluble portion of the coffee.-Finally, and this surprised me a little, don't be afraid to try a middle-of-the-road coffee if you don't care about having the best coffee every single day. Even Folgers brewed in the AeroPress is much smoother, so I only purchase the pricey stuff every once in a while. Personally, my go-to gruntwork coffee is Cafe Bustelo (espresso ground), which is way underpriced, if you ask me.Enjoy!PS I have flipped a mug once using the AeroPress, but it was because the top was barely small enough to even hold the press. When it shifted a little, the whole system collapsed. So, uh, don't do that. Standard-shaped mugs and short glasses work fine.


