1354492800
4.0
review/summary: Indestructible, Unlike Bodum's Garbagereview/text: I bought this after breaking the third Bodum french press beaker of my coffee-drinking life. I get that glass is fragile, but my last Bodum broke when I was just gently tapping grounds from my grinder's plastic grind bin into my Bodum Brazil and a big chunk of glass broke off. I used it for a while, dreading buying yet another, and then one night I was cleaning it and knocked it over sideways on the counter and it shattered completely. Bodum stuff is just too delicate and poorly made for real-world use. The previous couple beaker brakes felt deserved, but when this one succumbed to being tapped and then knocked over (I mean how many pieces of glassware would break just from being knocked over sideways on a table?) I decided it was time for a new brand.For this purchase, the primary consideration was indestructibility. I don't put much stock in the thermos-like capabilities of this device, because anyone who drinks press coffee knows that you can't let it sit and keep steeping, even once it's been pressed; it just gets too strong and nasty, so you have to decant the coffee immediately or suffer the consequences. That said, I am confident the beefy stainless steel and plastic chassis will never, ever, ever break under daily office use, and it would probably be OK to throw out the window and run over with a car a few times.I'm not on board with the complaints about too much sediment in the coffee. If you press slowly and carefully, don't wring out the grinds under pressure once they are compressed, and don't pour out the dregs, you'll be fine. This is just the nature of press coffee and you have to understand that once the coffee is poured, you can't stir it, shake it or take that last sip.My only complaint about this device is that the pour spout is a bit drippy, you have to be deliberate and maybe follow up with a thumb-wipe or blot with a tissue if you have one handy. A disappointing weakness, since the thing is molded plastic they could have made it any shape they wanted, but bad pour spouts are not exactly uncommon.


