1355443200
3.0
review/summary: Water is dirtyreview/text: While most people criticize the Keurig for breaking quickly, I don't like it for a different reason - hygiene. Ever run straight water through this thing? Even after taking off the filter? Totally gross. Old coffee grounds everywhere, brown water. I ran several water cycles and it didn't really improve. I'm an addict, so I'll still drink coffee from it, but I get a little nauseous sometimes thinking about what I'm drinking in addition to my coffee. I won't drink tea from it anymore, because you can see what's in the water.The other three reasons I don't like our Keurig (note, I do use it every day for coffee!) are the following:1. It makes a really weak cup of coffee. And that is coming from someone who likes weak coffee. If you buy something strong, like Starbucks, Newman's Own Extra Bold, or Costco's Pacific Bold, it's sort of passable as a decent cup of coffee. I don't mind weak coffee, but friends like it strong & so does my husband. So, it's pretty much used only by me.2. It's both hard and expensive to get K-cups I like. I either have to drive to Bed, Bath & Beyond, where I spend an arm and leg, or order from Amazon, which is convenient but I then wait an awfully long time for coffee. Every time, and I've been ordering for about a year now, it's at least 2-3 weeks. Everything else I order from Amazon comes quickly, except coffee! What gives?3. Not much to choose from, non-coffee-wise. If you drink tea, there aren't a lot of choices available. Sure, things like apple cider and hot chocolate are available, but they taste awful. To fit a full serving size into a K-cup, they have to alter the recipe - including cutting the sugar & replacing it with Sucralose or...? Whatever it is, it tastes terrible. & I'm not that picky. My kids don't like it either! They're four and two. They will drink the cocoa, but I have to run at least 7 cycles of water through it first to get out most of the coffee grounds first, and then I add a bunch of milk, maybe close to 50% of total volume. Then it doesn't taste bad, depending on the brand you buy. Grove Square is one that isn't bad, but stay away from Safeway's generic cocoa. I haven't tried Swiss Miss.On the plus side, it is a very convenient way to make coffee! Almost too convenient. I rarely drank coffee before I owned one of these things, now I'm up to 3 cups/day.


