1356825600
2.0
review/summary: Plain and simple brews bad coffee.review/text: I bought this coffee maker about six years ago when I woke one Sunday morning to find my previous coffee maker no longer worked. I ended up with the Cuisinart DCC 1200, which was not my first purchase that Sunday. This was the third coffee maker I purchased that morning. I kept the Cuisinart because it made better coffee than the first two and I was tired of washing and re-boxing and returning coffee makers. When filling the water tank for the first time water ran down the front of the carafe the whole time I was filling it. Then opening the lid to dispose of the used coffee grounds I had to wipe up the water that ran from the inside of the lid down the back of the machine. Thought it might have been me, but no that evening when I went to make coffee the same thing happened. I have talked with several other who purchased their's around the same time and they have the same problem. I use fresh roasted coffee and grind it myself and bottled water. I have added more ground coffee and less ground coffee, ground the beans finer, ground more coarse and have never been able to get a good pot of coffee from this machine. I also transfer my coffee to a thermal carafe after brewing so it does not sit cooking on the hot plate. I have changed the filter and descaled the machine regularly. About a year after purchasing the machine I did some research into brewing coffee and decided to check the temperature of the water during brewing, 171 degrees is the best this machine does. Needless to say I have been waiting for a few years now for this machine to break so I can purchase a new one. This machine seems to be built very well and I have come to the conclusion that it my outlast me. A few months ago after getting the coffee ground and cleaning up the water, waiting for that bad cup of coffee I know the machine was going to make, I decided to take the leap and start researching coffee makers. After several months of research I will be ordering my new coffee maker next week. Lastly I am not replacing the Cuisinart due to the water leakage, I have been wiping water up after using this machine for six years. I am replacing it because it does not brew good coffee.


