1354406400
5.0
review/summary: Perfect vacuum for apartments!review/text: Context on my usage:I have had this vacuum for a little over three years now. I live in a one-bedroom city apartment with a mix of hardwood floors/area rugs and I use the vacuum approximately once per week for routine cleaning.Pros:This vacuum is small, lightweight, and maneuverable. It occupies a small footprint, is easy to put into/take out of storage, and is easily steered with a twist of the wrist. However, these attributes are not delivered at the expense of vacuuming power. The unit easily handles the dust, hair, and other light debris that builds up over time. It does an equally good job on my hardwood floors and my not-overly-plush area rugs. Furthermore, the clear collection chamber makes it easy to see when it is time to empty the container. Other minor considerations: I just store it on the floor in a closet, but it does have a hole at the tip of the handle if you prefer to hang it up. Also, one of the hooks you wrap the cord around can swivel, which makes it very easy to undo when you are ready to use it again.Cons:First let me say that this section is long, but the content is trivial. I've found that I need to be a little careful when walking away from the vacuum. The surface of the vacuum is nice and smooth which means that - and this is where the maneuverability comes back to haunt me - if I lean it against a wall there is a good chance that it will slide and fall. Similarly, because of the small footprint, I need to make sure it is fully upright before leaving it unattended (otherwise it may fall if it isn't balanced). That said, those are minor nitpicks which are easily avoided by just paying attention to what I'm doing, and it has never fallen on its own when left in a balanced position. In fact, these are not even truly "cons", but rather a tradeoff between size/mobility and stability. The only other drawback - and I imagine this is the case for all bagless vacuums - is that emptying the container out can get slightly messy.Parting thoughts:I wanted something more effective than a non-powered sweeper (you know the popular item I'm talking about) but didn't want the bulk of a full-size upright. This vacuum split that difference and has performed reliably and effectively for 3+ years. It perfectly meets my current needs, though I am not sure I would use it as a primary vacuum in a larger home (only because I imagine I would have to empty the container frequently and because I am not sure how well it would handle large areas of thick carpeting). I highly recommend this product for bare or thinly carpeted floors and would even call it a must have when you consider the very reasonable price point.(This is my first review, so all you experts out there let me know if there are any glaring shortcomings!)


