1353456000
1.0
review/summary: compare older and newer reviews for the big picture: recent years, quality is POORreview/text: I ordered the Presto because 1) it was a Presto, 2) it was advertised as stainless steel, and 3) the reviews were overwhelmingly positive.However, this Presto is nowhere near the quality of the brand name. Unfortunately, I bought it in the US to coincide with my return to another country (have found only aluminum cookers here), and by the time I actually used it, I had just passed the 30 day Amazon return guarantee, or that would have been the result.First concern was the inability of the pot to achieve pressure via the 'rocking regulator'. I followed instructions explicitly twice and both times the over-pressure gasket released pressure, without the regulator ever 'rocking'. When I cleaned the pot after the second try, I noticed the beginnings of oxidation, and thought I was seeing things.btw, I used purified water; the tap water here isn't reliable.It was the oxidation that caused me to look again at the product description to be sure I had purchased the stainless steel pot. I looked again at the reviews, this time the negative ones, because they had seemed to be so positive by percentage. The time periods were distinctly delineated, and many current reviews spoke about the poor quality now as opposed to several years ago. PLEASE, if you're planning to buy anything on Amazon, make sure that the current reviews are positive. The way the reviews came up was very misleading, and it was only upon looking at more than the order of 'most helpful reviews' that I saw the pattern of Old = High Quality; New = Poor Quality. I have since checked the negative reviews as a group on other searches, and it's quite obvious that many products had their heyday years ago.edited on Nov 26th to add: Interesting that there has been a recent flurry of 5 star reviews on this product-- doesn't seem logical, but perhaps the 6-quart is much better quality than the 4-quart, which I bought. The 1 star reviews appear to be mostly in reference to the 4-quart presto. I have changed the way I research products on Amazon after this experience.


