1347840000
5.0
review/summary: Cookware for life!review/text: Lodge pans are always smooth enough without the rough surfaces sometimes found on other cast iron items.I have several sizes and even brands of cast iron, and they are all wonderful. There is a small learning curve to get the most from cast iron, but if you learned to tie your shoes, you'll get this easily :). Plus, unless you break it, cast iron will forgive a mistake, and keep on cookin'. I will never get a stove top that won't stand up to cast iron, because I believe it's a healthier cooking surface, and it will outlast several stoves if even halfway cared for :).When I get new cast iron, even the old grey stuff, I prefer to season it by frying in it the first several times I use it. I've seasoned in the oven, but it uses so much energy. It seems to do alright if I spread a thin layer of oil in the pan and just heat it til it just smokes on the stove top.The rules:Let your cookware heat up before you add food. I test with a drop of water unless pan is smoking.... sizzle means pan is hot.Do not drop on hard surfaces as it can be broken with effort on your part :).Do not plunge hot cookware into cold water or fill it with cold water unless you are a blacksmith, in which case, carry on....If something is burnt on, or has dried on, soak in warm water, or heat some water in the pan on the stove top before you clean as usual. Unlike nonstick cookware, you can scrape stuff out of here as long as you are not gouging it. I use the metal spatula I cook with, or a little plastic scraper (if the pan is cooler) or a little brush or washrag to clean it. I use soap if it's really greasy or if I cooked something fragrant, but just a little goes a long way, and I always dry my pans on the stove or in a warm oven.Make sure cast iron is dry when you put it away and that it is stored in a dry space. If you don't, it will rust. If it rusts, wash it well, scrape it smooth with your metal spatula, the back of a spoon or even a plastic edge, and re-season (I fry in it again or smoke the pan on the stove top with a dab of oil spread on it).I have been using olive oil and the cast iron seems to love it as much as we do. If I'm getting the iron really hot, I'll use peanut oil to reduce smoking a bit.To sum it up, it works in the oven at any temperature, on the stove top, on the grill, and over a campfire.... you can let it soak, scrape it with metal, burn it up, cook eggs and pancakes or oven breads in it, and expect it to last a lifetime. If you make a mess in it that you can't clean in the sink, then next time you have a camp fire, toss it in, and treat your pan to a rebirth, lol..... when it cools, dig it out of the ashes, start over with scraping, cleaning, then season it in whatever way suits you. I love that the iron is something we need, and that I don't have to worry if it gets in my food... If if overheats, I still have a useful pan, unlike the non-stick pans.... I think our grandparents had it right.


