1357171200
5.0
review/summary: It's a Keeper!review/text: For Christmas, my husband bought me a Verismo. I have a Tassimo. He knows I like making my own lattes. My Tassimo is over 10 years old and working just fine. I thought, "I don't need another latte machine, but it's a gift, "Fun! I'll try it!" Verismo leaked - a lot, took it back - got another, even exchange - Leaked - a lot. Took it back. (refund)He still wanted to buy me a nice coffee machine for Christmas. I researched this coffee machine, saw the great reviews, decided I needed a nice coffee pot to sit alongside my Tassimo latte machine. I ordered this on a Saturday afternoon, rec'd it Monday morning before 9am! Wow! Prime rocks!I have used this machine 10 times now and I'm very happy with it. I can't believe how tall it is - I sat it next to my Tassimo which I thought was big - laughing. This is an attractive machine. It comes with the gold lifetime coffee filter which I do prefer. I haven't had any problems with machine, I'm happy with taste of coffee, I like the temperature choices. I've only used the 1-4 cup setting - I can't see it being able to hold 12 but I've not tried it - I'm guessing those are small cups.Found it interesting - the price difference on the Cuisinarts. Depending on color. The brushed metal and black chrome were $20 more, some of the metallics are higher. So, you want to pay attention to this. I ordered this a few days after Christmas and I see the price has went up now (2 weeks later) since ordering this so getting it during the holidays was a good idea.Update: 1/17/2013Con: I just had someone ask me if I could think of a negative/con about this machine what would it be. So, I sit here staring at my coffee machine, chin resting on palm of hand, other hand strumming fingers lightly on the counter, hmmmmmm.. thinking....thinking....thinking I've Got It! I don't like that the clock is so light. When I walk in to the room, I'd like to see the time from across the room, but it is not bright enough for me to make it out. So, I have to walk up to the machine and get real close to it in order to make out the time.It's a keeper!


