1361059200
3.0
review/summary: There is a trickreview/text: I've had this kettle for 5 years now and I still use it nearly every day. It was in storage for a year but came out working fine, which is a plus. (Wish I could say the same for my expensive DVD(R)player/recorder and my CD player alarm clock!)When I say I use this everyday, I mean multiple time per day. Frequently, I will boil 3-5 pots of water back-to-back with no rest time in between uses.I really like this electric kettle a lot.So,why the 3 stars...I deducted one star because:The underside of the lid and filter screen are plastic. I am not crazy about that because, well we all know about heating plastic, right? So I don't feel I need to elaborate more on that issue.The biggest problem I see is that the prongs which hold the lid onto the kettle are plastic as well and therefore they have worn down. I have to push on the lid to get the release mechanism to engage. I keep thinking one day, it simply won't open for me but so far it's worked.I deducted the second star because:At one point I thought it was dead because the green light wouldn't go on (no power) but then I picked it up shook it tried it again and it worked. After this happened a few times I figured out what is happening and HERE IS THE TRICK...on the underside of the kettle where the unit attaches to the heating element, there are two little white do-hickies (to be technical about it) and if one or both of then gets stuck in the open position, it won't work. All you need to do is jiggle the pot or gently touch it to engage it. Simple. If you don't hear the pot click after cool down, then you know you need to "reset" the circuit.I think it has slowed a bit in how long it is taking to bring the water to a full boil but it's not a big deal for me.It is a little difficult to see the fill-line inside the pot. I overcame this by filling the pot to the line and looking at the water level in relation to the open lid. If comes just a bit below the open lid so, I just fill to approximately that level. Never a problem.If there was one thing I really, really, really wish it could do is tell the temperature of the water. Some teas are very specific about the temperature of the water and if proofing yeast, you want your water a specific temperature. My work around for this is to listen to the water and when it sounds like it's just about to reach a rolling boil, I remove it from the heat, for my green teas. After measuring with your thermometer a number of times you will know what the sound is for your green teas or be able to see from the bubble formation on the bottom.


