1356998400
5.0
review/summary: Awesome juicer as long as you understand it's limitsreview/text: I have had this juicer for about 2 years now and have absolutely loved it. It juices quickly, and for a centrifugal juicer the pulp comes out fairly dry. I would definitely say the juicer is well worth its price. However, I will point out the pros and cons (as I see them, at least)Pros:1.) It juices quickly. I haven't used any other centrifugal juicers, so I don't know how quickly this one works by comparison, but it is quicker than a masticating juicer, of course. However, because the pulp isn't as dry as I would like it after the first time through the juicer, I usually send it through at least once more (sometimes more, depending on the water content of what I am juicing).2.) Clean-up is relatively easy. Rinse with water, scrub the screen with a brush. Pretty easy stuff.3.) Most produce fits into the feed chute easily, without having to be cut into many pieces. For example, a whole cucumber will fit, most whole regular sized apples, etc. Essentially, there is very little prep work to go in to the juice other than washing your fruits and veggies.4.) The blades deal well with most outer peels of fruits and veggies. This is NOT the case for citrus fruits such as oranges and lemons (I think it says this in the instructions). However, for apples, ginger, and the like, I do not peel them first. I've also read that pineapple does not need to be peeled prior to juicing in this juicer; however, since I recently started juicing pineapple I cannot say this is true personally.Cons:1.) The juice comes out fairly foamy/frothy. I don't know that this is necessarily a con for THIS juicer, as it's common for most centrifugal juicers. I just don't care for it.2.) The pulp area gets full rather fast, especially if you are attempting to juice dryer vegetables. Maybe this juicer is better for mostly fruits and things like cucumber, celery, etc. Really, I just stop juicing and clean it out and continue juicing, but sometimes it's a hassle. If you think you'll seriously be into juicing a lot, you may want to look at one of Breville's other juicers, such as the Juice Fountain.Overall, I have been very happy with this as my first juicer. While I am upgrading to a masticating juicer, I plan to keep this one around for fast juicing when I need.


