1357430400
5.0
review/summary: LOVE IT!review/text: I bought this one for my mom since I love the one I own so much. Ideally I think I'd like to have a Rug Doctor machine just because I have heard awesome things form family about them but the price is definitely out of the question. For a fraction of the price this does a GREAT job. I have used this and the Bissel ProHeat. This cleaned just as well, if not better, was easier to use and I didn't have any problems with it like I did the Bissel. In fact my cousin borrowed it after she had been borrowing my brother's Bissel for years and she said it got the carpets much cleaner than the Bissel. It seems to be better made than the Bissels too. My brother had his for maybe 5 years and it just quit. It stopped pumping the soap solution onto the carpet. This one is going strong and my hubby had a Hoover before we got married and it lasted a long time. Some people may be turned off that this machine doesn't heat the water, seriously, you don't need that! I just fill it with hot water from the tap and I run out of water before it gets cold. Heating the water is just hype and from searches online when my brother's Bissel stopped working when I borrowed it the heating of the water is actually what leads to the Bissel breaking down. It does blow warm air on the carpet when moving it over it, not sure if it really does anything to speed drying but if this thing has to emit hot air I like the idea that it is directed at my carpet and not just into the room!Mine came from a local big box store and did not come with the rotating hand held brush like this one. I wish I had that brush. This was abut the same price as I paid at the local wally world, if I could do it over I would order this one instead. I even thought about trading my mom after getting this one for her!When cleaning stairs if you have a lot of pet hair the hose can be a bit of a pain to clean out. I think I messed with it for at least an hour AFTER my cousin tried for an hour as well to figure it out. I finally did figure out how to clean out the hose since it got clogged with pat hair after reading several websites. There is a door on the hose that you can open and just fish out the hair. Super easy once you know that there is a door.I would definitely buy it again since the rug doctor is just too expensive.


