1345766400
4.0
review/summary: Makes great coffee & keeps it warmreview/text: This is a great french press (with a few issues). First, lets talk about the good. As it's stainless and insulated it keeps coffee hot much longer than a typical glass french press design will. If you tend to nurse your coffee along, this is a very good thing and keeps you from having to microwave to reheat as you go. Secondly, being that it's stainless it's much more durable than it's glass counterparts. This makes it much easier to take with you and let's not forget stirring that coffee! In a glass unit you're stuck with a wooden spoon or plastic stirring device to avoid shattering the glass. I frequently use a butter knife to stir in this and it works just great.The downsides of this unit are few but they warrant mentioning. The top plastic lid has no strain in it. A typical BODUM brand french press has a little vertical strain in the lid to catch any rogue grounds that may be above the press. Since this unit has no secondary screening if you botched the press part and have a lot of grounds in your coffee they are absolutely going to find their way into your cup. The press itself shares it's design with every other press that I have owned being that it is a multi-part unit that unscrews for cleaning/replacement. Seems to be an exact match with it's BODUM counterparts so feel free to interchange them if you need to.Cleaning is pretty straight forward, I wouldn't recommend running it through the dishwasher, but it does clean up easily by hand. The biggest failing of all french press units that I have encountered is that they simply don't brew enough coffee at once. My wife and I have oversized mugs and each tend to drink 2 cups in the morning. To accomplish this with as little pain as possible we brew two pots of pressed coffee. Once in a BODUM glass press (which we drink first) and a second (brewed at the same time) in the stainless. The stainless will keep the coffee hot (with ease) while we drink the first cup and avoids the pain of having to stand around waiting for water to boil to make the second pot. It may sound convoluted but hey... who wants to wait around for their second cup??!?!?I would buy this again and don't have any issues recommending it.


