1352073600
4.0
review/summary: Hoover SteamVac F5914-900 So Far, So Goodreview/text: I purchased this product last week (after reading a ton of reviews) so that I could have the convenience of doing carpet cleaning in my apartment one room at a time. I figured the price of purchasing a carpet cleaner was comparable to getting our apartment professionally cleaned and it would give me the convenience of doing it on my days off from work. We have one small dog and one small cat and the carpets haven't been cleaned since they were professionally clean in July of 2008 (disgusing, I know.)Per other reviews, I made sure to assemble the cleaner following the manual exactly. Didn't have any problems. I began cleaning the carpet, within an hour of receiving the cleaner, nearest our door where there is the most ground in dirt and foot traffic. During the three hours of cleaning that it took me to a 5x5 area, the only problem I had was after I dumped the first container of dirty water (and it was black. Again, so disgusting). There is a rectangular piece on the container that can slide. If that piece isn't slid back into place to create the seal when placed back on the cleaner, it won't suck up any water. Once I figured that out, it was a piece of cake.This does require a lot of water dumps and fills, but I don't really expect much else from an in home carpet cleaner. I know some people complain about the dirty container filling faster than the clean water empties, which is true, but I find this happens faster when I do a soap run because of the bubbles. When I do a rinse run, they match up a bit better.BTW: I do a rinse run because the carpet just felt a bit stiff just doing a soap run and then letting it dry. It made a huge difference to go over the area again with just hot water. I know it's a lot more work and not necessary according to the cleaner solution bottle but it's worth it and it definitely makes a difference.My only major concern right now are the brushes. They seem to only rotate one way, so with the 7 hours that I've already run the machine, the bristles are starting to get matted down. They seem to run about $30 which isn't terrible, but it's annoying because I've only done 1/5 of my apartment and unless I figure out how to straigten them out, I'll need to buy new ones.I will com back and post an update after I finish the entire apartment.


