1346803200
4.0
review/summary: Mixed Emotionsreview/text: So I legitimately abused my 4.5Q Kitchen Aid mixer. To replace it and prepare for mixing bread dough on a regular basis (once a week) I went with this one.Overall the reviews said it can handle the quantity I was going to be mixing (and I did take into consideration all of the negatives on this). My sister has been making dough in hers (6Q Kitchen Aid) for 8+ years. I had my 4.5Q for 10 years (and it could not handle regular dough making (which is what finally did it in). I followed the instructions on how much flour it can handle, what speed to mix on, and how long to allow the mixer to knead the dough (it mixes and kneads really quickly, so I didn't need to have it on for more than 5 minutes). Within a month of owning the 6Q Professional the hook was not rotating when I went to start mixing and kneading today's bread dough. The motor did not sound like it was working properly either. So I turned it off, and tried again. No luck- same deal. I let it go for a moment and thought I heard the motor start to work properly, but the hook was still frozen. I finally admitted that this mixer was broken, and kneaded my dough by hand (my Insanity work outs are paying off because I didn't feel like my arms were going to fall off after 10 minutes of hand mixing and kneading). Aren't Kitchen Aid's meant to last past the Apocolypse?Defeated and bitter I called the Kitchen Aid Customer Service. They asked questions about how much flour I was using (I hadn't passed 10 cups of white flour, or 8 cups of wheat- this mixer should handle these amounts with no issues whatsoever). They asked about the speed I used (I started on Stir for about a minute and changed to "2" after components were just combined- again, as per instructions for use). They asked about how long I allowed the mixer to knead the dough (no more than 5 minutes are required because it mixes really fast and efficiently). After my sob story, she said that I was using the machine as is intended and apologized that the mixer was no longer working and it was from nothing I did. She gathered my contact information and said that in 7-10 business days I will be receiving a new mixer, of the same model and color. She also informed me that they will need the broken one back and all I have to do is take the new one out of the box and put the old one in its place and ship it back. There is a slip included that will cover the return shipping.So: I'm a bit disappointed that my Kitchen Aid broke, and I have to wait 7-10 business days for the replacement (I got this initially via Prime, so my wait time was short). On the bright side: I am very pleased with the customer service from Kitchen Aid. And I will be receiving a new mixer soon!!!! We'll see how thigs go from there and if I have to change my review.


