1359763200
5.0
review/summary: Powerful Juicer, Great Design!review/text: I've had this juicer for about a week now and I've used it several times a day and I absolutely love it.Previously, I'd been interested in juicing and bought a cheap Black&Decker; juicer. I used it at least once a day for a couple months and liked it but I was ready to get something more effective, convenient, faster and better.Then, I watched &#34;Fat, Sick & Nearly Dead&#34; and I knew I had to get this juicer! I'd also already heard great things about it from other girls who were doing a juice fast... and I knew there was no way I'd do a juice fast using the little Black&Decker.;Anyway. This machine is great.1. It is very sturdy and well made. It also has a great design, it's a good size and I absolutely love the juice pitcher and lid they give you. It's a perfect set up. The Black&Decker; only includes a tiny 300ml measuring cup that you position below the spout and I'd often bump it out of place without realizing it and have juice going out on the counter. What a mess and a waste. Not with the Breville. The pitcher is 800ml + and it has a nice coupling type feature that keeps it in place with the spout on the machine.2. It sounds like a jet engine but it is not overly loud. It just sounds more efficient.3. I love the wide mouth feeder. I have put in whole apples and tomatoes and handfuls of carrots and celery. This makes the process SO much FASTER. Before I had to chop the carrots in half as well as any apples, etc into small slices. With this guy, I just cut off the ends and go.4. Do not shove the plunger down. That will waste a lot of juice and give you large chunks of pulp. Simply put your produce in the feeder and let it take its time, gently pressing the plunger as you go. I find this gives me more juice and drier pulp.5. Carrots, celery, apples, pears give just about sawdust dry pulp. If you use anything else with more of a fleshy meat (like, cucumbers, oranges, pineapples, etc) you will have a wetter pulp left over. When I do fruits like those, I do a quick rinse/scrub on the strainer/cutting device and run the pulp back through. ALWAYS run your hard/crisp produce through first or you will end up losing juice because the strainer gets clogged. Others have said to use carrots last to &#34;push the juice through&#34; and that doesn't make sense at all and I have not found it to be true.6. I love the recipe book and there are also some yummy recipes posted on Zappos for this product!7. I also like that this product does allow some pulp to pass through to the finished juice... It is not chunky at all (like say pulpy orange) but very very fine. It makes for a very smooth, almost creamy juice. I seem to end up with less overall pulp leftover and I like that I seem to be getting some of the fiber content of the produce. This is especially true if I run the pulp back through to get more juice out.Overall, I definitely think this product is worth the money and it seems very effective. There may be better products out there but for me, only wanting to spend $100 or less, this product is just about perfect!! If you are like me, looking for something that is cost effective, well-made and convenient, buy this juicer!


