1347062400
3.0
review/summary: The Norpro slave driving and exercise machine.review/text: Greetings and good day to all! The first part of my review concerning the "Norpro meat grinder, mincer, and paste maker" involves the assembly instructions which omitted the existence and application of the trumpet like adapter which I found among its other parts. Depicted however upon the Norpro box is the adapter shown in use as a sausage making attachment. Secondary and conclusive to this dissertation is the fact that after having assembled the Norpro with sausage adapter in place, I proceeded to make ground beef sausage, and hopefully mutton sausage thereafter of which both are almost impossible to find from Virginia through Florida. Immediately upon grinding, the exit of meat became totally obstructed, and the grinding mechanisms, to include the grinding port, became hopelessly clogged. It was during this process where I also discovered that the very sinuous cuts, and organ meats which are best and crucial for sausage making would continue to bind between the auger, blade, and port even after the sausage adapter had been removed. In light of the abysmal results derived from using this so-called sausage adapter as a meat grinding adjunct, I feel it logical to assume that it was originally designed as a pasta shaper or like device which did not work well as such, and was thereby re-assigned to a equally bad or worse function. To date I have yet to make pasta with the Norpro. Without exaggeration, I have invested quadruple the time and labor into disassembling, clearing, and re-assembling the grinder mechanisms than was required to compose, season, and package the sausage. Three hours and twenty minutes later, I managed to grind three pounds of sausage, which by the way, had to be re-ground twice in order to achieve consistent texture. Left over from the grinding was a near equal poundage of meat which would not grind, and was subsequently used for soup and chili. So utterly exhausting was the use of this thing that it has made me tired all over again just thinking about it. On the following day, I used much more tender cuts for making ground beef patties which proved somewhat less problematic and laborious than the making of sausage. By contrast, the making of ground beef produced less meat which would not grind. I will add however that no mater how tough or tender the cut of meat, the fat would equally jam up the works. Unless you are willing, and or able to extremely scrutinize, and trim every sinue from each portion of less expensive meat before grinding it with this device, or purchase very lean, expensive, and Norpro friendly cuts which would make far better steak than ground meat, then please select another grinder which preferably has a very powerful motor. A note to Amazon is that had I found an affordable, motorized, and similar device on your web-site, I would have surely returned this slave driving machine and gotten one. THANKS! Marv.


