1355184000
3.0
review/summary: $hould be better for the money, Design/Engineering problemsreview/text: We've had this brewer for about four years; it makes good tasting coffee. Overall it may be the best coffee maker we've ever had, however we have never spent this much money on one before (I think we paid quite a bit more for ours than the current price here, closer to $90).Pros:Nice looking style, brews quickly, has the control features we need. We like the wire basket filter feature to use in lieu paper filters for the medium ground coffee we buy, and one may use a paper filter for finer ground coffee if desired.Cons: Design & Hardware issues1. The design of the pouring spout on the carafe is poor [no pun]; when filling the water reservoir using a carafe full of water, invariably one will dispense water onto the counter top as water dribbles down the front side of the carafe due to the improper design of the spout until the carafe is about half empty.2. This unit should have a CMOS & battery to retain the controller settings (clock time, auto start time and other user settings) when power to the unit is interrupted due to a power outage or when the unit is unplugged for purposes of cleaning it according to the manufacturer's instructions.3. A part of the hot water dispensing "nozzle" assembly under the lid broke off easily while cleaning the unit early on. It still brews coffee without it, but again, poor design.4. After about a year or so of daily usage, the toggle-like "Retro-style flip switch" that turns the unit on or off started malfunctioning, and works intermittently. If manually brewing a pot of coffee, sometimes we have to bump it several times, sometimes it works. If using the switch to start the automatic (timed) brewing cycle, it may or may not start the brewing cycle. Regardless the brewing option, the unit may quit halfway through the brewing cycle and we have to flip the switch again until it stays on. Lousy hardware.5. With the water reservoir at the rear of the unit and the "stairway to heaven" stepped water level indicator disappearing down into a hole, it is difficult to see how much water is in it without sufficient ambient light directly overhead.The unit comes with a 3 year limited warranty (plus shipping & handling you must pay both ways). We are remiss in not taking advantage of this opportunity; however, we would have had to go buy another coffee brewer until we received a replacement.


