1356566400
4.0
review/summary: So far - so good!review/text: I have this product for about a month now, and, all things considered I am very happy so far. I have followed the collective advice I found in these reviews, and I use neither freshly-ground beans nor fill the grounds receptacle to near full, and I have not as of yet, thankfully, have seen water or coffee on the floor. Also, I've found that putting the cap on the carafe and turning it backwards for a quarter-to-half of a turn helps seat the cap properly so that it can be correctly sealed.The carafe does keep the coffee hot for hours! I tend to first run just water through the device (preferably the full amount, but at least half) first to heat up the inside, and then make my coffee. I can come back to the pot, over six hours later, and still get a hot (not piping, but not warm!) cup of coffee. Since there is no constant cooking, the coffee tastes good, and not like sludgy road-tar.The only reason I have not given it five stars is that it is a bit, liberal, when it comes to cup size. I have measured it multiple times, and the carafe (and water tank) only hold 57.6 fl oz. In other words, it is a 12-cup unit if you define cup as 4.8 fl oz., not even the standard 6 fl oz. What this means is that the measure on the side is pretty much useless, unless you take your eyeball measurement and multiply it by 0.8. I fill the unit with a measuring cup and then just add one scoop per 6 fl oz. disregarding the measure on the unit. When I put in 30 fl oz. of water, which in most coffee machines will read 5 cups (even though it is less than 4 actual cups), this machine is reading between 6 and 7, so if you use the machine's reading, your coffee will come out too strong.Cleaning wise, I use a bottle brush for the carafe, the bottle brush's tail to lightly clean the holes in the cap where the metal and plastic bearings sit, and let water flow through both ways.Overall, I'm very happy with it (so long as it doesn't overflow :) ).


