1351814400
1.0
review/summary: I'll never buy anything from Farberware again!review/text: Just bought this pot from Macy's to replace my old Farberware (4-12 cup) pot. It was dead out of the box. It would not stop perking... it perked for 15 minutes and boiled away half of the water in the pot. My previous Farberware pot lasted less than two years.... Compared to our original Farberware pot that lasted about 15 years, the new ones made in China do not stand up to the made in America ones. The stainless steel is thinner and does not have the feel of the old pot. The cord is so short that you almost cannot pour a cup of coffee without pulling the cord out tof the socket. Macy's gave me a full refund today..... HEY FARBERWARE - START MAKING THEM IN AMERICA SO YOU CAN SELL A SUPERIOR PRODUCT AGAIN! UNTIL THEN, CUISINART HERE I COME! ps... their website is terrible and I could not find any details about the pot... Should be zero stars.. Amazon did not let me leave the star field unchecked...11-18-12 update.... So I tried the Cuisinart 12 cup percolator... it made a weak cup of coffee following the levels of water and coffee marks in the pot... also made in China... since I don't like using more coffee than I used with the Farberware pot, back it went and I got a refund... there is no way to increase the perking time to get a stronger brew... looked at reviews on Amazon for other brands and went to Sears and picked up a PRESTO 12 cup perk pot... also made in China... there appears to be no perk pot made in America that I could find.. (even SEARS coffee makers are made in China) BUT I like the Presto pot! Pros: it makes a hot, strong cup of coffee with the same amount of water and coffee I used with the Farberware pot... it is a lot heavier than the other pots; the base is much heavier... maybe a more rugged heating element?? it has a bottom spout so the grinds stay in the pot.. cons: the spout has a sharp edge... you could cut your finger on it! the cord is short and is not a three pronged cord... the cord is also a smaller gauge than the Cusinart and Farberware ones... I'm keeping this one, but will update this if it stops working within two years....


