1360368000
1.0
review/summary: Think twice.review/text: I bought this originally so 1) I could avoid using plastic and 2) I thought it would be convenient to be able to bake with these little dishes (baking a mini-casserole for example) and then being able to throw whatever leftovers there were straight into the refrigerator and then whenever I wanted to reheat the food, I would just be able to throw it from the fridge into the microwave without having to dirty extra dishes. Too good to be true. After I received this in the mail, I started researching the advantages and disadvantages of soda lime and borosilicate glass in depth because this glass didn't match the color of my older Pyrex dishes (not that it mattered, I was curious why.) Despite what the Pyrex website says about soda lime glass being safe to use in the oven and it being stronger and more resistant to impact breakage, I don't believe it. And frankly, I don't want to put myself or anyone else at risk of the glass shattering with any sort of heat change no matter how big or small. Pyrex's claim that soda-lime glass is just as durable is, in my opinion, just a gimmick to get people to believe it is the same quality glass when it really is just the cheaper alternative. I have used the same Pyrex baking dishes and measuring glasses (made out of borosilicate glass) for the last 15 years and have only had one dish chip due to slipping out of my hands in the sink. Two days after I opened this set, one of the dishes was already chipped on the rim and all I had done was washed the set and stacked them on the counter. My other qualm with this product is that the lids are not consistent. Some of the lids fit nice and tight forming a good seal around the glass, but others are loose and leak. For the amount of money I spent on this set, I was expecting good, quality controlled products that would be long-lasting like my other Pyrex investments. So far, we are off to a bad start. Think twice before ordering this. I would have been better off to just stick with Rubbermaid tupperware.


