1360454400
4.0
review/summary: Great cast iron skilletreview/text: TL;DR version - The skillet is awesome, it cooks everything from dutch babies to searing meat without any sticking or hot spots. No kitchen is complete without a cast iron skillet.------Now that's out of the way, if you haven't cooked with cast iron you're missing out, and you've also got a lot to learn, so here's a crash course to help figure out if this skillet is right for you.Advantages of cast iron:* cast iron has a high density, thus is retains heat extremely well* it's great at distributing even heat* properly seasoned cast iron can perform with the best non-stick pans* they are built to last longer than you, many are passed down generation to generation* you could rearrange a home intruder's face with a good swing of a cast iron panDisadvantages of cast iron:* unseasoned cast iron will rust quicker than you imagine* takes longer to heat up than your nonstick or steel* will probably crack if thermally shocked or dropped* they are heavier than any other type of cooking vesselA lot of the disadvantages of cast iron are easily addressable with a bit of common sense. First and foremost, cast iron has to be completely seasoned. This means the cooking surface, the bottom, the handle, everything. The good news is, this is pretty easy to do and the more you use the pan the better your seasoning gets.Seasoning your cookware:There are many discussions as to how to properly season cast iron. A recent post on lifehacker sums them up best. Basically what everyone agrees on is the vessel is covered in a layer of fat, and is put under high heat until the fat polymerizes. You let the pan cool, and repeat until you have multiple thin layers of polymerized fat. The discrepancies are what type of fat to use, the baking temp/time, and the best practices to maintain your seasoning.Traditionalists will argue that lard is best, because that's the way it always has been done. I've seasoned with bacon fat, and I'm a big fan of it. It satisfies the inner animal in me and makes me feel I'm cooking in the manliest way possible without putting a whole animal into a fire - not that I'm insecure about such things. I've also seasoned with vegetable oil, and found that it produces almost identical performance that lard does. The food science crowd suggests using flax seed oil, because it polymerizes easiest. I haven't had a chance to try seasoning with flax seed oil, but it's what I plan on doing after my next move in a few months. Another point to bring up, is that cast iron used to be offered polished and unpolished. The Lodge skillet comes unpolished, meaning it has a textured surface. I think before I do the flax seed oil seasoning, I will likely use a dremel/sandpaper to smooth the cooking surface purely for aesthetic purposes to flaunt that I take care of my cookware. Polished cast iron does offer the benefit of more exposed internal pores, so the seasoning sticks better, but I've never had an issue seasoning so this point is moot.I've done both high heat and medium heat for seasoning, and I find that the hotter the oven the better the seasoning. If you fail to season above 350f, you will likely end up with a browned pan that is slightly sticky because the fat didn't form a polymer, and will make you leave an unnecessary low star Amazon review and never know the benefits of cast iron. My suggestion is scrub the skillet with steel wool and soap until the water runs clear and you're sure there's no soap remaining on the cast iron. Dry the skillet completely, and cover with oil; make sure you get the handles, bottom, and top. Place a cookie sheet below the oven rack to catch any drips so you don't burn the house down. Heat the oven to 400f to 500f and put the skillet in there and bake for an hour - not including the preheating time. Putting it in a cold oven may be unnecessary, however this is the thermal shock downfall I mentioned earlier. It's better to get into the habit of avoiding massive temperature changes so you can pass the skillet down to your children's children. After the hour, shut off the oven and allow the skillet to cook down. This initial seasoning layer isn't quite ready for primetime, if you were to cook something with tomatoes, lemons, vinegar you could very well screw it all up because of the low PH reacting to the thin layer of fat polymer and possibly penetrating all the way to the cast iron. Too much science for me, so to be on the safe side if I'm going to be using the oven with temperatures in excess of 375f I make sure the cast iron gets another layer of fat and gets re-seasoned. Usually after about 3 or 4 trips to the oven, it could withstand just about anything.Now that you're seasoned, how do you not screw this up? First and foremost, I use metal utensils on it because it inevitably makes it easier to clean if stuff isn't stuck to it for very long. Providing you're not trying drill for oil through the pan, the polymer should be hard enough to not flake off and ruin your day. Next, make sure you invest in a large thing of salt. I don't think it's anything chemical about salt that allows it to clean the pan, but it's an edible scouring powder. I've read that because we generally don't use dish soaps that contain lye, they should be gentle enough to use on cast iron. I cannot confirm or deny this, because I find just using salt and a bit of oil to make a paste works just as well. Get a paper towel and polish down the dried bits of food until it resembles how it started. It may not have the same shine, but you should be completely drying the skillet and applying a real thin coat of oil to it. There's your shine. It's important to continuously use the skillet to maintain the coat. This doesn't mean every night, but treat yourself to a steak for dinner or pannekoeken for breakfast once a week - your skillet and taste buds will thank you.


