1343952000
1.0
review/summary: Great Coffee maker if you like messes!review/text: We bought this coffee maker in May and have been having a recurring issue with it "making" a small amount of coffee on it's own. We would pour our coffee in the night before - but would NOT close the lid until morning when we were ready for our coffee - which worked fine for a few weeks. Then it began brewing a small amount of coffee throughout the night and would have 1-2 cups made by midnight. At that point we stopped pouring the water in ahead of time and simply would prepare the grounds and set the full carafe of water on the hot plate the night before - then pour it in in the morning and shut the lid. This again seemed to work fine and we decided we could live with this minor inconvenience of the design as the coffee it made was indeed better tasting that a traditional cold brew maker.2 days ago we came home from our boy's T-Ball game (2 hours total) to find it had made an ENTIRE pot of coffee on it's own while we were gone (the lid was OPEN). The big problem with this is that it made it ON TOP of the carafe that was already full with clear water for the next day's coffee. So as a result we had an entire pot of coffee all over our counter top, down the front of our dishwasher, under the laminate countertop (causing the wood to swell up) and all over our hardwood floor and under our refigerator. We managed to clean the mess up and so far it seems we got it soon enough that our hardwood floors aren't heaving up.We have not contacted Bunn yet about this issue as we're confident they will only offer a replacement coffee maker - which we don't want. We have no confidence in Bunn at this point and do not want another one of their products.Thankfully Amazon worked with us and is refunding our entire purchase price for this item even though we were past our return window. Never buying another Bunn product after this. They might be great "most" of the time but the risk of a stinker isn't worth it to us. I can only imagine the mess if this would have happened during the night and all that coffee had been left for 8-9 hours rather than just 2.


