1357171200
1.0
review/summary: Cuisinart Defective Dud--Possibly Dangeousreview/text: I had noticed the many poor reviews of this product, but had thought enough time would have passed that Cuisinart could have addressed the issues and corrected them. I was wrong. The unit I received had a power defect and wouldn't even turn on, so I had to use an older pressure cooker on New Year's Eve. It's unconscionable that Cuisinart has been putting out so many defective products in recent years, as is evidenced by the poor reviews just on this item alone.Oh sure, they or Amazon will replace the defective products--but that totally discounts the hassles and inconveniences that customers are put through to return or exchange all those defective items. That more than suggests that Cuisinart neither appreciates nor respects their customers, and cares very little about whether or not they earn a customer's trust or repeat business. Apparently, a certain (low) percentage of their products actually do work right out of the box, but this 1-star rating has been put here to expressly reflect Cuisinart's rating as a company whose products had been ok years ago, but have become substandard and unreliable.Bottom Line: Avoid Cuisinart Products--They produce far too many defective items and their track record clearly has not been improving.UPDATE: 1/8/2013 Received a replacement unit from Amazon, which was also defective. The replacement one had power, but similar to other poor Amazon reviews, the minute it reached full pressure it shut down to the "warm" feature instead of cooking at pressure. A much more serious concern, however, was that while the unit was cooling, the pressure valve suddenly opened by itself and released a long gush of sputtering steam--which seemed VERY DANGEROUS, since it could have seriously burned anyone standing close to it and not expecting it to "manually" release on its own, so I presume some of these defective units also have faulty valves, as well. I'm not a pressure cooker novice, and have never had any presssure cooker "manually" release steam unless the valve had been purposely switched to the manual release position, so that was pretty scary even though no injury resulted.Well, I had really-REALLY wanted a nonstick electric pressure cooker, since after many years of use my previous nonstick one had worn out, but I'll be using my old stainless steel electric pressure cooker instead--some foods stick a bit to the bottom, but at least it works properly, plus it only releases steam when the valve is manually switched to do so, and has proven itself to be safe.Do yourself a favor -- DO NOT BUY THIS PRODUCT!!!! Based on the reviews, some units have apparently worked, but having received both a defective one with no power, and a replacement that is also defective, the chance that you'll receive one that works properly is not very good, and "DEFECTS" are NOT something you want to be dealing with when it concerns anything as dangerous as steam under very high pressure.


