1355529600
5.0
review/summary: Advantage: Thermos - Keeps coffee hot during brewing processreview/text: A common complaint about the French Press coffee-brewing process is that coffee comes out at a temperature lower than desired - at least compared to drip method. This Thermos-based insulated model keeps the coffee hot during the brewing process. To prevent over-brewing, I immediately transfer the coffee to an actual Thermos immediately after the four-minute French press brewing cycle is complete. So you see, I don't actually use this insulated French press as a decanter/carafe; I only use it as a brewing receptacle. I get tasty and hot French-press coffee every time!Here's my process:1. Boil in microwave 1 cup tap water, pour it into French press, place cover onto French press, but do *not* press the filter down. This will pre-heat, or "hot-charge" - the French Press. This is an *essential* step if you want hot coffee!2. Boil in microwave enough filtered water to fill the French press to nearly the top of the container. Let boiled water stand until temperature drops to 190 degrees (a couple of minutes should do it).3. While boiling water, grind some beans.4. Transfer hot-charged water from French Press to Thermos (my decanter/carafe) to hot-charge it. This is another *essential* step if you want hot coffee!5. When brewing water is ready (hot), place the grounds into the French Press.6. Pour the filtered and heated brewing water into the French press, place lid onto top of press, but do not press the plunger down yet. Rotate the lid so that the dispenser hole appears to be closed. Wait total of 4 minutes for coffee to brew.7. After 3 minutes of brewing, empty the pre-charged water form the Thermos/carafe.8. After 4 minutes of brewing, slowly but firmly press the plunger down on the French press until it stops.9. Rotate the lid so that the dispenser hole appears to be open. Transfer the brewed coffee from the French press to the Thermos/carafe.10. Decant from the Thermos/carafe.11. Enjoy!Seems a little convoluted, but comes naturally with practice, and the results are worth it.


