1360886400
5.0
review/summary: Incredible little vacuum!review/text: Finally someone has made a small, lightweight machine that truly does an excellent job, and is a joy to use! I have a large two story house, and have purchased thousands of dollars worth of upright vacuums over the years, and haven't been really happy with any of them. My big Meile, even though it was a powerful vacuum, had it's limitations, and was cumbersome and heavy. I was hesitant to purchase this little Hoover, as just a couple of years ago I had purchased a bigger Hoover upright at BiMart, and found it to be of inferior quality. But the reviews on this Hoover Flair Bagless gave me the shove I needed. It arrived quickly, and it was child's play to put it together. I didn't even need to look at the instructions. The bagless feature really appealed to me as I am tired of paying outrageous prices for bags. The dust cup is incredibly easy to pop out and clean. When I turned it on, I was shocked by its power! The suction was better than any of my other much more expensive big uprights. This little gem cleans right up to the baseboards, and picked up things I couldn't believe. Changing it from floor mode to carpet mode with the rotating brush was as easy as pushing the switch on the top of the unit. I never expected the excellent carpet cleaning ability that this light and easily maneuverable machine has! And the rotating head feature (that I didn't even know it had) has been such a blessing. The smaller head goes between kitchen chair legs, and between end table legs--and around corners with ease! When it went between the piano bench legs, I was totally sold once and for all! I have always had to vacuum with my upright, and then get out the canister vacuum to get under places the big upright couldn't go. I do notice that the motor seems to get hot, and I don't know if that could be a problem or not if it's used for a long period of time. But I am in love with this little vacuum, and my clunky big uprights are going to charity! Hopefully this little guy will last, but even if I had to buy a new one every other year, I would still love it!


