1356048000
2.0
review/summary: You have to look at bottom-line value and performancereview/text: It's funny, some items here on Amazon provoke intense emotion in the reviews. Clearly this particular unit has a strong following (UPDATE: or a highly paid team or marketers, since this review got two "unhelpful" comments after being up for only a few days). For me, the main emotion evoked by this unit is intense disappointment.I had purchased this unit based primarily on its positive reviews, as well as the fact that there didn't seem to be any other unit that seemed to stand out particularly. It seems that all humidifiers have some issues listed, with no clearcut winners. So I decided to give this larger unit a try, seeing as how having to re-fill the tank every 1-2 days is kind of a pain.As I was planning to use the unit primarily at night, and like having some light white noise when I sleep, I was actually looking for a unit that would not be "silent", so the noise issues some folks were citing were not a concern for me. Neither was the weight of the tanks or exact accuracy of the humidity %s. So, I gave it a try.My first reaction was that the unit is, in fact, made quite flimsily. The wheels didn't quite seem to fit into the slots, I had to really force them, and they still felt kind of precarious. So I had to make sure to be very gentle when rolling the unit around a bit. Kind of a pain, but nothing too major.My next concern came when I turned it on. While, as I said, I was looking forward to having some white noise from the machine, what I hadn't counted on was the slight buzzing that was part of this noise make-up. This appears to be due to the imperfect fit of the canisters against the sides of the base. The buzzing actually was most noticeable when I first filled both tanks, and seemed to subside a bit over roughly 20 minutes or so. But the fan itself also creates a somewhat uneven sound, something else I wasn't counting on as I had never encountered this in past humidifier units I'd had. Disappointing, but not a huge thing, I forced myself to get used to it.The other noise-related issue I'm having actually has to do with the fancy-schmancy(ish) humidity controller. I've been running my unit on the lowest setting, as the higher settings really do get quite loud, and I didn't need quite that much water being pushed out in my bedroom. But even on the lowest setting, the unit put out quite a bit of water, such that it would shut itself off during the night. In terms of regulating humidity, this is fine; however, the sudden change from having white noise to none at all would invariably wake me up several times during the night, as the machine would switch itself on and off. I ended up just settling on a higher setting. Not a dealbreaker here, but just something for folks to keep in mind, in case anyone else was planning on using this at night in their bedroom.In terms of the unit design, one of the reviews had mentioned the poor design of the tanks, in that it's hard to fill them in the tub. I have to concur with this assessment - there really is no reason at all that the designer couldn't have created the tanks to be shaped in a way more conducive to being used in their expected way - turned upside down and filled in a bathtub. The handles don't allow the containers to lay flat, thus creating a very precarious surface. Especially when it comes to adding any sort of "anti-water-yuk" stuff (I've been using the grapeseed extract and am quite pleased with it) - you need to be able to balance the canister with the opening at the top in order to pour something into it. This can be quite awkward with the poor design.And this is where my 2-star rating comes in. Despite the most popular reviewer's flip statement that when people drop items they should expect them to break - I heartily disagree with this sentiment. Given the comments about easy breakability, I was consciously super careful when filling my tanks. But alas, after roughly 2-3 weeks of use, the tank slipped out of my hand and into the bathtub where I was filling it while trying to maneuver it right-side-up for transport out of the bathroom. This is a completely foreseeable scenario, given that the tank is a bit unwieldy and is slippery from being wet. While the drop was of less than 2 feet, the whole front portion (the thin transparent plastic part) completely shattered. This is a massive design flaw, as this container is MADE for carrying heavy water while wet on the outside from filling. A natural part of that scenario is that occasionally the container will slip. I have in the past dropped tanks form my older machines, and have never encountered anything quite so easily breakable.So, I'm down to 1 tank. The unit still functions, which is why it gets 2 instead of 1 stars, though now it's no better than a smaller unit of less than half the price, and takes up more space and looks ugly - and still has the minor annoyances mentioned above. And I also am extra worried each night as I refill the one tank - one slip, and it's money down the toilet.What a total waste of money and plastic! I was also unfortunate in getting an extra filter along with the machine - thinking long-term. Too bad that too many of today's products are made with only short-term profits in mind.(UPDATE: clearly it's cheaper for them to hire marketers to write positive reviews and negate the honest negative ones than to actually create a quality product! Shame on you, Honeywell!)Shoddy materials, flimsy plastic, and poor design. For sure, not worth the money. Guess next time I'll just stick with the $40 unit from BB&B; - will ultimately get me the same thing as I ended up with now, for less than half the price, and less hassle.


