1355702400
5.0
review/summary: Cookie Scoops Saves Livesreview/text: At the same time, I purchased the small, medium and large scoops. I'm going to write about all three and then paste on each product review.On each of the scoops, they're well made and when used makes you think you're holding something of quality that has some girth to it. The padded handles are great and cleanup is a breeze. When using the scoops on dough, depending the how sticky the dough is, I may dip in water between scoops. The size differential between the three are perfect. When you squeeze the handle, it's not hard and I've not had it jump the gear yet. Washing is very easy...I rinse them and put them in the dishwasher.For the large scoop, the size is perfect for pancakes! I know you may not squeeze to get the batter out, but for consistancy, they produce the perfect size. I've also used this on ice cream. You may want to dip in water prior to scooping, but it cuts through hard ice cream well and give a great scoop.The medium is the workhorse. If you want any kind of consistancy with your cookies, you need this scoop. My worst cookie to try and keep the same is a sticky oatmeal cookie. Trying to dig out a bit of dough, roll it up, and then (as only my own personal OCD will allow), weigh it....yeah..there's a day making some of those cookies. NOW ROLLS IN THE MEDIUM &#34;SCOOPS SAVES LIVES&#34;!!! I know I'm being a bit dramatic here, but you don't know... I get PERFECT size each and every time. I don't have to spend what seems to be hours just washing my hands. I don't go through a bunch of latex gloves or have to do anything extra other than SCOOP - SQUEEZE - REPEAT.The small scoop. Admittedly, I've not done much with the small one. I've used it on a mellon and a watermellon. So I'm pretty sure it will surpise me one day.I hope this is the kind of review you're looking for. The drawbacks to these are they aren't made in the USA. If they were, I would have paid double to have this kind of scoop.


