1358467200
5.0
review/summary: Waffling over Waffle Makers? Buy this one!review/text: I did a lot of research on regular waffle makers for under $100, and decided to go with this tried and true, inexpensive Amazon favorite. After all, how could 526+ reviewers be wrong? Anyway, I am a first-time waffle-maker owner, and this model has been absolutely perfect. We've made 7 batches of waffles, 10-20 at a time, four different batters of various ingredients, and have not had a single one even come close to sticking. I like that we can adjust the darkness setting based on the batter, and this unit is so compact that it easily stores on edge. I could have spent more on a waffle maker that took up more storage space, but I didn't have to.My only negative observations (although minor) are that the instructions mention a "special latching feature" which is supposed to keep the unit locked closed for storage; ours does not "lock." There are also two slots into which the plug from the wrapped electric cord are supposed to insert; our cord is about an inch short of allowing that.Observations to share with other amateurs like myself:* As the instructions say, the first time you heat this waffle maker, you'll want to put it on high to burn off the chemical coating from manufacturing the Teflon. I actually placed the unit outside because it was pretty fumy (no smoke, just smells). We also threw out our first few waffles after the first oiling and cleaning just in case.* DON'T USE COOKING SPRAYS ON TEFLON: It's fairly well documented on the web that the propellant in non-stick cooking sprays is what leaves behind that sticky, brown gunk that eventually will ruin a Teflon surface. Instead, use regular extra virgin olive oil applied with a heat-resistantOXO Good Grips Silicone Pastry Brush. Oil the hot grates once before each use and toss the brush in the dishwasher. It gets in all the nooks and crannies with ease, and you'll never have residue. Cleans up with a damp paper towel.* Instructions say 1/2 cup of batter per waffle. We've found this to vary depending on the thickness of the batter. Start with 1/3 cup; you can always add more if your waffles are coming out too small.* Steam release is a better indicator of when the waffles are done than the green/red light on the unit. Sometimes it cycles on and off twice on level 2.5 before the waffles are perfect. We find most of our batters work best between 2 and 3.


