1358985600
5.0
review/summary: A Handy, Versatile Gadgetreview/text: I'd been wanting to try a stick blender for quite a while, and this one was at a reasonable price point to be worth adding to my kitchen arsenal.Originally I wanted a stick blender for pureeing soups and chowders, which it does beautifully with much less mess than using my old traditional countertop blender. No more transferring small amounts of soup to the blender at a time, processing, then repeating for more small amounts until the pot was done. This does the job in the same cooking pot without damaging the pot in the least. And the cleanup is much faster too since the business end of the stick blender pops off easily for hand washing. No more juggling the breakable blender container to wash it and trying to get the blades clean without bloodshed.Next came milkshakes, for which I bought aNew 30 Oz. (Ounce) Malt Cup, Milkshake Cup, Blender Cup, Cocktail Mixing Cup, Stainless Steel, Commercial Gradeto pair with the stick blender. A perfect match! The only problem is that now milkshakes are too quick and easy to make, so I end up making them more often. I don't do smoothies, but this would be perfect for those too.I keep finding more uses for this gadget such as chopping nuts, blending cream of coconut and milk for ice cream, and mashing bananas for muffins and quick breads to name a few. The only thing I have found that this doesn't do well is chopping chocolate. The heat generated by the blades is enough to melt the chocolate so you end up with a lumpy mess instead of chocolate chunks.It's a great gadget and well-constructed. It only has one speed, but I haven't found that to be a negative. It does the jobs I need it to do well with just the one speed. The same for cord versus cordless. I haven't found having the corded model to be a problem; having to find a place to mount a charger dock and keep a battery charged would be more fuss than simply using this model with a cord for the way I use the blender.I don't know how I got along without it for so long. Recommended!


