1359763200
5.0
review/summary: Simple is betterreview/text: I purchased a top-of-the-line Rowenta because I allowed myself to be seduced into thinking that somehow, ironing was more complicated than using a piece of hot metal to flatten a wrinkled piece of clothing. Needless to say, the Rowenta looked cool. However, after the 1st year the reservoir leaked...I had to empty it completely every time I used it or the area surrounding the iron would be covered with water. Soon after, the plastic around the cord cracked and broke...but I gamely carried on because the results were so much superior, right? Then, one day, I realized that ironing with a Rowenta was a chore. It spitted water, and didn't hasten the job in any measurable way that I could see. I had to press hard to get rid of wrinkles. I vowed never to buy another and trundled off to Bed Bath & Beyond where they have a big beautiful display of Rowentas and then, almost as an afterthought, a section of cheaper irons almost where I found this one.While reading the review for this iron, another customer came strongly advised me to buy a Rowenta...he waxed on unendingly about how great the technology was (err...'you mean hot metal and water" I thought). Despite my earlier resolve, I was almost seduced - they look cool, but decided (after he finally walked away) that a sound fiscal decision was in order. After all...it's only an iron. The technology isn't that complicated: hot metal and some moisture to iron out a wrinkle. Did I really need a $150 piece of hot metal, when a $40 piece of hot metal would do the same thing? The only thing that might have dissuaded me from the Black & Decker would have been to see that it was made in China - I have an aversion to junk that they produce. When I saw that this as made in Mexico, I thought, 'well at least it's in the same Hemisphere and I don't think the Mexicans are trying to dominate the planet', so I purchased it.I actually think it works better than the Rowenta...the iron plate is not as full of holes as the Rowenta, which means in my simple mind, that there is more hot metal touching the fabric to smooth out the wrinkles. The plate of a Rowenta is so perforated that it almost looks like a window screen....how can that press out a wrinkle? also - no drips, spills and surprise, surprise...a $40 piece of hot metal from Mexico irons as well or better as a $150 piece of hot metal made in Germany.


