1357862400
2.0
review/summary: Gotchas to be aware of with this productreview/text: So my grinder arrived yesterday, and I began trying to assemble it. I was surprised that the supposedly removable upper burr was locked in place. I fiddled with it for a bit and couldn't get it to fall out. Then I tried to install the coffee hopper, carefully aligning the dots the way it says. It wouldn't go in. I fiddled for a bit, and sigh, a small piece snapped off the bottom edge. What they *don't* tell you is that the inside of the machine swivels as you twist the top coffee hopper, and that's how it adjusts the grind. AND the only time the upper burr is removable is when it's swivelled all the way past coarse to an unlock position. AND the only time the top coffee hopper fits in the way it's supposed to is in this same position. My unit was shipped with the innards swivelled part way, locking the burr and making the top hopper not fit. Given that the top hopper is what you're supposed to twist to change the grind and unlock the burr in the first place, this is an issue. The answer is that you can use a butter knife slid into the slot in the inside of the grinder where the top hopper's plastic flange is suppose to fit to rotate the insides back to the unmarked unlock position. Then the burr comes out and the top hopper fits in. I wish *I'd* known that before I snapped a piece of the flange off trying to fit it in. It's pretty flimsy for a crucial part.So I glued the hopper flange back together with superglue and got the whole things to assemble correctly. But it still wasn't working. I was wondering if I had a DOA motor unit, but decided to poke at it a bit more. I figured there must be an interlock to keep it from grinding with no top on. Sure enough, there is a small switch that gets depressed by the flange if you've rotated the unit to one of the grind positions, and isn't depressed if you're in the unlock position. Or that's the way it's supposed to work. On my unit, the flange isn't thick enough, or the switch is badly positioned. Even when I'm in the grind position, it doesn't trigger the switch. So now I've got a piece of masking tape on the flange to make it thick enough to trigger the unit. Functional, but hardly what I'd expect to do with a brand new unit. I'm going to go grind some coffee now, and see if it's worth exchanging for a new one, or if I just want my money back.


