1355788800
4.0
review/summary: Quietly Works Better Than Mostreview/text: I have waited 2 months before reviewing this product because I wanted to give it a fair test. First of all, this unit will place a lot of humidity in the air and will keep you busy filling the water tanks. This is the only purpose of a humidifier and in this category, I would give it 5 stars. However, as a retired Industrial Designer, whoever designed this unit forgot the fundamental axiom that form must follow function. I appreciate that the unit has 2 separate water tanks, holding about 2 1/2 gallons each because water weighs about 8 1/2 pounds per gallon and a larger tank would be too heavy and hard to manage for older folks. The designer got a bit too cutesy with the shape of the tanks and they do not balance well when filling. I learned to place them in the kitchen sink where I could lean them against the center partition of the sink. The clear bottom section, which is supposed to tell you that the tank is empty, is worthless. I simply lift up on the tanks to determine the amount of water left, which is a very easy task.Every home has a different situation when it comes to humidity. My 1800 square foot home, with an open floor plan, is in the mountains where the outside humidity is fairly normal, as compared to a home in the desert where it is usually dry. I have a Trane heat pump with a variable speed air handler and electrostatic filter that requires me to run the heat pump circulating fan at all times. When the unit is not heating, the fan runs at a whisper quiet speed to keep air moving through the filter system. This also helps to circulate the humidity throughout the home, so this unit will keep the humidity at a range of 45 to 50% with the humidistat at the mid range and the circulating fan at its lowest setting. The unit is sitting on a hardwood floor, in the dining area of the house. It is about 10 feet from my living room recliner and the small amount of fan noise does not bother me while watching TV or eating. I do not have to use the higher fan speeds, which are a bit noisy.This is the 3rd humidifier I have tried in this house and this one is the very best when it comes to putting humidity in the air. I fill at least one or both of the tanks on a daily basis. The unit comes with an extra filter but one filter should last an entire season. I cleaned the unit, this week, and simply soaked the filter in cool water for about 30 minutes to loosen any scale or slime. It also comes with 2 sanitizer balls, which should last for an entire season. Because I am on a deep water mountain well, I add about 1 ounce of 3% Hydrogen Peroxide to each filling, to prevent slime build up. I have used this method in other humidifiers and it works better than bleach without the smell.Yes, there is a central humidifier that I can install on the heat pump, but it requires a constant flow of water and a floor drain. I do not care to run my well water all the time and I do not have a floor drain in the basement. The quote for installing such a system was nearly $2000 so the Honeywell HCM-6009 at $85 was an easy choice and a much better solution to my problem of low humidity.


