1354579200
2.0
review/summary: Dumb me?! Or dumb Amazon/Thermos?review/text: I approached this purchase with more confidence than usual. I know I can depend on Thermos. And (subconciously) I knew I had been an environmental engineer. I'd once received an M.S. with specialty in water quality management. The item arrived. It would be great for trips - and for my coffee in the AM (spills come with age; conventional mugs are iffy when in transit).Then I opened the item, turned it over, and saw a tiny slip of paper float to the ground - something easily overlookable. "CAUTION: Do not use this product for hot beverages... ." Bummer! This info is not in Amazon's Product Description. It is not stated in the product info wrapped around the item. Unless ...Hydra...hydraulics...hydration bottle...hydraulic jeans ...these MIGHT (but often don't) imply water. And since coffee is "only" 99.99% water, the Thermos marketing lexicon MIGHT (but really shouldn't) assume we understand -- no hot beverages! The field of fluid dynamics doesn't understand that. The definitive Oxford English Dictionary doesn't either (unless it's covered in a very recent online update). The "Urban Directory" really doesn't, not directly. Haudralic fluid for your Chevy isn't water."Hydration" may be an obvious tip-off to anyone under 40 or 45. But the rest of us really should be able to purchase a silly "thermos" (like coke and 'fridge, it's part of the language) without knowing unconventional cant (jargon).12/9/12 Since writing this, I've completely unpacked this bottle ("Made in China") and carefully read the brief instructions inclosed. It seems Thermos uses a single instruction sheet for all their "STAINLESS STEEL PRODUCTS," prepared in the usual 4 or 5 languages (but curiously, no East Asian languages).This sheet, for my "Mug/Bottle," says I should "pre-heat or pre-cool [it] just prior to use." The few other instruction are in a similar vein. Their is no suggestion that some products may not be used for hot beverages. I looked, but there is no specific mention of dishwashers: to use or not to use.I believe Thermos has taken this one-size-fits-all instructions business much to far. If they can't be bothered to write instructions for a product with special use or care requirements, then perhaps they shouldn't make and market it.


