1359504000
5.0
review/summary: This Is My Very First Pressure Cannerreview/text: Ok, I wanted to wait to write my review until I used this thing a few times because I want to be as accurate in my review as possible for others since this is not a cheap product.I have never canned in my life and made my purchase based strictly off of the reviews of others. I decided to buy this one because if I am going to invest in canning I wanted to go top of the line. That is why I did All American instead of Presto. I decided on this size because I wanted the ability to do several jars at one time but since I am not a die-hard canner I didn't want to go for the big daddy size.I will say without hesitation that this is an AWESOME piece of equipment. I was nervous as heck when I got this after reading some reviews. No worries. Just read the directions in the booklet and you will be fine. I have used this for pressure canning and water bath canning. The instuction booklet tells you how to do both, plus it tells you how to pressure cook - I haven't tried cooking in it yet.As others have said it is heavy. When my son was home from college I had him move it to the stove when it was filled with water. Now that he's gone, I fill it up as much as I can and put it on the stove then finish filling it up once on the stove - so easy fix to that problem.Next, as others have said it is BIG. I live in an apartment so I don't have a real nice stove and I have a microwave over my stove so I was concerned it wouldn't fit. That has not been a problem. This unit fits on my burner and under the microwave just fine.Just looking at and touching this thing you can see and feel the quality. There is no doubt this canner can be passed down to my daughter (and hopefully one day I'll have a ganddaughter).As far as the reviews that said the lid sticks....what in the heck????!!! Trust me, as long as you grease it up like the instructions say, you will not have a problem with the lid sticking.If you can afford this canner, buy with confidence you won't be disappointed. I'm not.


