1356998400
5.0
review/summary: Excellent shredder! Great for salad making!review/text: I bought this originally to make salads. I'm tired of buying the plastic bags with the carrots and radishes in them and have it spoil in 2 days. So I bought this. I still slice the lettuce by hand but everything else gets shredded or sliced into the salad bowl. I found out some members of the family do not like radishes at all, so sometimes I slice or shred each vegetable into plastic containers and keep everything separate. The lettuce is still in the bowl and everyone picks what they want in their salad: grated carrots, sliced mushrooms, sliced radishes, sliced cucumbers, shredded cheddar cheese, etc. I am finding that having a salad on a daily basis is much easier with this device. It cleans very easily; just handwash or place in dishwasher (top rack). I buy cheddar cheese in bulk at a warehouse club and shred half into a plastic container. This methods works very well in saving money and you have real shredded cheese without the powder stuff that you get in a bag at the store. The professional size does allow you to shred a whole potato into a skillet very easily. I bought the fine grater attachment from Presto to grate carrots and apples into cake mixes or other recipes in order for the younger children to eat more vegetables. I don't like to steam carrots, puree them, then add them to a recipe to be cooked a second time. This is a great way to sneak in veggies without a child protesting and without having to pre-cook and puree the vegetable. It is very hard for a person to pick out the finely shredded zucchini and carrot from a meat and rice dish. I looked up a popular "salad" cake recipe using a yellow cake mix with shredded carrots, apple and zucchini. I used 1/2 cup of olive oil in place of eggs with the shredded apple, carrot, and half a zucchini with great success. The cake was very moist. I haven't cut my hands with either of the cones. Note that when you go to the Presto website the grey cone for slicing is the same that comes with this boxed set. I didn't know that, so I now have two cones that are for thin slices. I do use both the regular shredding cone and the fine shredded cones alot. I haven't shredded cabbage yet with this. I did slice half an onion and it did a great job of slicing it thinly. I don't regret this purchase. Hope it lasts longer than the two year warranty. I love it!


