1360281600
4.0
review/summary: Pretty good so farreview/text: I just received this grinder in the mail yesterday and immediately put it to the test. My initial impression is that it is a good value for the money. I wanted a conical burr grinder but didn't want to spend $200-$300 for one. Based on the generally good reviews I decided on this one. I would give it 3.5 stars if I could, so I tipped it up to 4.The good:- 16 grind settings - I didn't try them all yet but I like the variety and high-medium, low-coarse worked perfectly for my Keurig machine.- Very thorough and uniform grind quality!- Decently-small-enough footprint- Fairly quiet operation- Design aesthetic is non-offensiveThe Bad:- Messy. It is hard to keep the counter clean - coffee grains seem to go in all directions when you pull the catch-can out. Maybe it's me but my other grinders didn't fling coffee grinds around like this.- It's hard to get the grinding chamber hygienically clean. Not sure if that was because of the oily dark roast I used or not but I am concerned about the residue becoming rancid and imparting off flavors in the future. Maybe there is a better way to clean it I am not aware of...- Static cling. Your coffee will have a lot in common with your winter laundry! It clings for dear life to the catch can interior and grinder burr assembly. A small brush is provided.- The timer mechanism is mechanical and not electric. As a result it seems disconnected from what the rest of the grinder is doing to some degree. This is a minor thing and a cost saving measure no doubt but it just seems to really cheapen the device to me. (but then I remember the lower price I wanted...)A warning - make sure you read directions when installing the hopper - you MUST line up the dot as it says or you can break the hopper!I brewed a couple of cups of dark roast and the taste was very good - first experience with burr grinding seems OK so far!Now it looks like my BADs above are worse than my GOODs but it is not so. Overall I am generally happy with the grinder - the biggest issue I see is the mess, but perhaps that is more down to me learning how to minimize it with this particular grinder. I'll update this review later if things change.UPDATE: I have now ground a lot more beans in one sitting and I have to say when I pulled the catch-can out it was literally like a volcano of coffee grounds coming up and out all over the counter! I have done some research and this appears to be a common problem with burr grinders (never noticed it with the blade grinder though). I don't believe this really has anything to do with the grinder really. There are a lot of other variables like the inherent dryness of specific bean you are grinding and the humidity in the room. Need to find a solution...


