1350950400
4.0
review/summary: baby k'tan!!!review/text: Love it! most importantly my baby loves it too!!! and she is a very hard to please almost 4 month old. Let me say that I did a tremendous research before buying a sling. For some reason K'tan wasn't my first choice. I ordered ring sling instead... And sent it right back! Material was awful, very tarp like. Baby K'tan is SOOO soft and pleasant to the touch. Then ring sling didn't offer that many positions, not like K'tan. I'm using it only in a hug position for now, but I"m sure my daughter will love all the others as well. This thing has become a life saver for us. She would be fussy, screaming and crying - I stick her in k'tan walk a little bit or stand in a yard and she just looks around and quietly falls asleep. And that's the baby that won't fall asleep unless she has my breast in her mouth.:)It's very easy to put on, no wrapping all those crazy layers of material - I just couldn't imagine doing that. Oh, and did I mention we live in S.Florida? So no layers for us )))another thing - my back. I couldn't hold my baby for more than couple of minutes. Pain and burning in my back would get unbearable. But with baby K'tan I can wear my daughter for 1-2 hours. )))There are only couple of things that i take 1 star off the ratings for.1. I couldn't manage to breastfeed in it. But they say on the web site that it's not for everybody and it might not work for you. So i'm ok with that.I'd rather sit down and nurse her discreetly anyway.2. It does stretch.-overtime. so you just need to wash and dry it. which is not a big deal at all. You should do it anyway. My daughter that spits out pacifiers likes to suck or lick on this. ))) wrap didn't change the color or got any kind of wear from washing.-as you wear it for an hour or so baby tends to slide down a little bit a i have to re-position it. I can see how that can become annoying for somebody who plans to wear it for several hours straight.but I'm not doing any long hikes or vacation type walks wearing baby, so i don't care much.3. We would need 2 sizes if my husband wanted to baby-wear. Which would get expensive.So that's it. I never leave reviews but I felt like doing it for K'tan, because i'm so happy with the purchase. The other day guy at the grocery store was asking me all kinds of questions about it and he said that I should work for K'tan because i was so enthusiastic about it. if I'll remember something else i will update.


