1345939200
5.0
review/summary: I use this sling multiple times dailyreview/text: I'm on baby #2 and bought this sling the very day she was born. I must say I love this product and use it multiple times a day. As a mother of an active 2 year old, I have to always have my hands free. I also have the Moby Wrap and Baby Bjorn from my first, but so far, I prefer the Baby Ktan.Pros:1) SO easy to put on. Put it around your neck while holding baby. With one arm holding baby, slip one arm through a loop, move the baby to that arm, slip the opposite arm in the other loop. The Ktan NEVER touches the ground and your baby is always in your arms to avert the hold-me-cries which is the reason you need the sling in the first place. The Moby wrap is SO cumbersome to put on, it's not worth it to take out of the house. You definitely need two hands to tie the darn thing in place and the vast length of material inevitably touches the ground, which can be gross if you are at a restaurant or public place. Baby Bjorn is easier to put on than the Moby, but still more difficult than the Ktan. Since there are buckles, usually someone else has to be holding baby to put on.2) Relatively easy to get baby in. This takes some practice. The Ktan and Moby are similar in this regard, but I don't use the extra midsection piece for security since I'm not doing major lifting. I find that if you spread the fabric of each loop out to cover the baby twice, the extra midsection piece is not necessary. Right now my daughter is only 7 weeks old and I pretty much use the Ktan to get her off to sleep or go for walks. If I ever attempt to do more strenuous activity (housecleaning, tackle football), then I'll definitely consider taking the time to place the extra piece.3) Easy to get baby out without waking her. Since I don't use the midsection piece, I simply peel each loop off her back and butt, lean over the crib, and slide her onto the bed. I find that the lifting motion required to get baby out of the Baby Bjorn usually wakes them up.4) Easy to wear when not in use. I don't find the sling particularly fashionable, but if you are in a situation requiring baby to go in and out frequently, it's nice that it is lightweight and stays out of your way so you can drive and walk with ease. I've never left the Baby Bjorn on sans baby, but I imagine its stiffness does not lend to convenient driving.5) Easy to pack. The Moby is huge and difficult to pack, as is the Baby Bjorn. I can throw my Baby Ktan in my diaper bag or purse and have room for other items.6) Saves me the hassle of getting a double stroller - so far. I just pop my toddler in his single stroller like I normally would, throw the little one in the sling and get going. I know this is short-lived while she is still so tiny.Cons:1) The small ring that holds the loops together serves to tighten the wrap once baby is in place. This can be difficult to reach if too high up. Putting on the sling so this ring is within reach takes a little practice, unless you are a body contortionist.2) One size does not fit all. I'm 5'3" and 140lb (hopefully 15 pounds lighter in the near future!) and wear the size small. My husband is 6'3" and probably would not be able to fit the sling. This does not pose a problem for us as he would "never be caught dead wearing a baby in a sling." But definitely a consideration if your husband would.3) Price. At $10 more than the Moby Wrap, I had to seriously consider whether buying this sling was necessary when I already had the Moby. It's just a few pieces of fabric! Why so expensive? But since I figured I would never have the time to tie the Moby wrap while chasing around my 2 year old, it was worth the money.4) Nursing baby in sling is difficult for me. So far, I haven't had much luck using this to nurse. Maybe it's because I'm on #2 and have much fewer qualms about just whipping it out in public.So after 7 weeks, I'm still loving this product better than the Moby and Bjorn. We'll see if it stands the test of time.


