1348185600
4.0
review/summary: Happy with this gate and do recommend itreview/text: We have been using this gate for a week now with two tiny puppies and are happy with it and recommended it to others.Pros:It works as advertised. Easy lift and swing function is simple and natural. I like the lock/hold open feature when the gate is fully extended which is great when the dogs are not in the gated room. Spring closing action automatically closes the gate for you after you release your grip on it. The gate can swing in both directions meaning you always use the same motions to walk through no matter which side you approach the gate from. There is a very solid "click" sound and feel when the gate closes. The adjustable width feature utilizes two separate extension pieces. Construction feels solid and metallic/durable. Quality of materials, fit and finish are all excellent. And the price is a lot better than retail pet store solutions.Cons:Depending on the width of your door opening, installation can be a challenge. Once it is installed properly, you will be happy using it as long as you don't have to remove it/reinstall it again. Unfortunately my 32" door opening for the mounting was in that challenging group. I was required to use one of the two width extension pieces, but the base gate plus one extension barely fit into the 32" opening and left very little room to screw/extend the wall mounting pads to create the final tight fit/adjustment. Because of the design, the free standing stationary section adjacent to the gate wants to spring out at the top (horizontal piece) away from the door frame. Trying to manually pull it back in at the top to get the entire design to fit in 32" opening was a challenge. Then once I did get it all to fit in the opening, the process of tightening the wall screw/feet was tough because there wasn't enough clearance to insert the special tool that the gate comes with.There was one minor issue that I want to point out for those planning to use this with tiny dogs. Our puppies were big enough that they could not get through the grates in the gate. However, the opening where the gate edge and stationary piece close together has a slightly wider gap than the rest of the bars, and our puppy was still small enough to get through it with a little effort. It is temporary and the dogs will grow big enough that I can remove my workaround. My aesthetic work around was to take the unused second extension piece and use white zip ties to attach the extension so it straddles this region essentially halving the pitch on the bars. It actually looks pretty good for a hack. However, this means the gate can only swing one way now.The gate comes with a warning sticker on the packaging about how the springiness of the metal and the design cause the parts to appear unaligned (non planar) when not installed and that the planar alignment will be restored after installation. This is exactly what I experienced as well and it did straighten when installed. As for the opening I mentioned above between the gate edge and the first stationary bar next to it, the gate was installed properly and all the vertical pieces were straight up and down after the adjustments, so it wasn't due to the gate not being installed properly. It was just that our dogs were just too small still.


