1349913600
5.0
review/summary: LOVE even after 3 monthsreview/text: I was a little skeptical to buy this because of all the negative reviews this product had about not being durable and the electronics not working properly. In fact, I was so skeptical that I didn't buy it at first. A few days later, still a little sad that I couldn't find anything else, a friend of mine posted a video of her kiddos (she has twins) playing with the same toy I wasn't buying!! She told me that she loved it, her babies loved it and that it was a durable as it could be so I ordered it. It was extremely easy to put together AND the toy came with its own batteries which I thought was absolutely amazing since nothing ever comes with batteries anymore. The electronics worked great until about 2 months later. It started doing all the crazy things that people were talking about. Luckily I remembered that the batteries were originally provided to me by the company and who knows how old those were so I replaced them and the electronics worked great again. Soooo... to all those people that said that the circuit board was crap, check the batteries first and see if that is the problem.As for durability, my daughter has rammed it into every single piece of wall, furniture and living thing in our house. It has a 90 degree square base with wheels so it is extremely difficult to tip over. In the 3 months my daughter has had it, she has tipped it over 1 time and learned that when you fall, you have to let go of the handle otherwise it comes down with you.This toy is fun, flashy and gets used in our house every single day. My daughter loves this thing and it was worth every penny of the $35 dollars I spent on it. If your baby is ready to start walking then this toy is absolutely wonderful but please know that if your baby cannot stand on their own, then they are not ready to be walking with this toy so just get it for them to press the buttons since it can be easily removed until they can stand and walk with it.There are no stoppers or emergency breaks on the wheels so for those who are worried that their little one will push and it will go forward, you're right, it will and it wont stop. That is what it is made for.I gave the educational value a four because while there are a million things on it that baby can learn from, they probably are not going to because they will be so busy wanting to push a million other buttons.UPDATE: We have now had this for 6 months and my daughter still loves it. She figured out how to take the face off to play with it by itself and has thrown it on the ground several times. We do not have carpet so the fact that it is still working tells me that it seems to be put together pretty well.


