1346198400
5.0
review/summary: Protects Your Little Onesreview/text: North States Superyard Playard is one of the wonderful gifts I had ever bought for my 13 months old baby. Initially, I wasn't sure about how it will help but it is doing great as my baby is getting enough room to play and enjoy. I was afraid of the space it could engage but the playard comes with adjustments and you can fold it to fix in smaller places too; either indoor or outdoor. I use it in the living room, which not only helps me in keeping an eye on my kid but also works as a d&eacute;cor.Factually, the playard is available in different sizes and shapes. It offers sufficient space without causing any kind of hurt. It protects my naughty kid when he plays inside the playard. It can be set up within seconds and has a firm grip that keeps it steady when placed with a specific arrangement. As it offers larger space, one or more kids are easily accommodated with few toys in the playard. My baby finds it absolutely enjoyable to play any time.It is available in different colours and amazing designs as well. I bought a multi-coloured playard, which looks attractive as well as stunning. The Superyard playard is a great product for pets too as you can use it to keep your pet safe and protected. It offers enough space for the pets and they find it playful and a safe access zone.The one I bought has a special sound and light effect that attracts my baby. Many times I also step into the playard to play with my baby. It is so spacious that it provides space for both of us and we can thereby spend some quality time together.Apart from this, I was particularly interested in a durable, colourful, portable and easy to use playard. With amazing Amazon online shopping, I could manage this joy for my baby. The weather resistant material and superior grade plastic has made its appearance safer and more acceptable. Amazon offers the Superyard playard at affordable prices.A must buy product that makes parents stay away from worries about child's safety. I'll definitely recommend the North States Superyard playard for those who have smaller children at home. It is the best product that goes well with play, fun, and safety concurrently. I will positively add on some more panels once my baby turns two. This will offer increased playroom area for my child.


