1344643200
5.0
review/summary: Baby likes this one the best.review/text: My daughter is almost 2 months old, and up until recently she didn't like being worn. She just wanted to be held. As a new mom, that's kind of frustrating, because I still have SO much that I need to do. I hold her all day, but then I don't get anything done.We also have a Maya Wrap and I thought we would like that better; my mom had a ring sling when I was growing up, and I remember we used to wear my little brothers in the ring sling all the time. So, I expected to like that the best...but it really doesn't work very well for newborns, to be honest. It's tough to get her to sit in a position that supports her well in the ring sling. Occasionally she'll tolerate us trying to use the ring sling, but mainly she just cries.I was a little intimidated by the MOBY at first because you have to learn how to tie it. After you've put it on a few times, it isn't too bad. My daughter wasn't crazy about this wrap the first couple times, but now she likes it. It's great, because I sometimes wear her for hours. She'll wake up, and go back to sleep, and wake up, and I just continue what I'm doing and occasionally bounce more as I'm walking (or rock as I'm sitting) if she starts to fuss. One thing I like about this wrap (vs. the Maya ring sling) is that in the newborn carry method she is pretty high up on my chest, so I can bend my head down and kiss her or rest my cheek on hers, and that helps her to feel like I'm right nearby--which I am. It's really comforting to her for us to be so close.I see some of the other reviewers have mentioned the same problems I've had:- The MOBY is big. It is a LONG piece of thick fabric, so when you're not wearing it, it isn't something that is easy to bring along with you when you are out and about.- It always touches the ground when you put it on. I've gotten better at putting it on, but it still always touches the ground because it is just so long. I don't like this, because we have a giant dog, and although I try very hard to keep our floors clean, there are usually some dog hairs on the floor around our house. Gross.- The MOBY is kind of heavy and warm. It does distribute weight very well, and I'm happy about that. Since my daughter is so young we don't really go outside a whole lot, but it's August, and sometimes I'll wear her just to walk down to our mailbox, and even that is uncomfortably warm.Anyhow, that's all I have to say about the MOBY. I am VERY glad we got it, because it makes such a difference in what I am able to get done during a day, and our daughter cries less because of it. I've heard that it works best for infants, so I suspect that as she gets bigger we will use it less, and we'll transition to other kinds of babywearing, but even if we only use it for the first year (or less), it has been well worth it. This is one of our baby items that we use most.


