1346976000
5.0
review/summary: Helping me keep my sanity!!review/text: I love the Baby K'tan! We just had our 2nd baby 5 weeks ago and he can be very fussy unless he's held. Not so easy when you have another little one to take care of. Plus, he really likes swaddling so this product help solve a lot of issues for us. I didn't really want to get a big, long wrap. I'm sure they work fine, but I just couldn't see myself wrapping it all around myself in the middle of his screaming fits or at a store or something. The baby k'tan helped solve that issue too. In terms of sizing, I am 5'8" about 145 lbs. and the small is perfect.Pros:Easy to put on and baby fits in there great. I just went through the instructions on the baby k'tan website and didn't have any issues getting my son in there. I would say if you're having trouble to do it in front of the mirror, that helps you get the hang of it.Comfortable for the most part. I couldn't see myself wearing this for hours on end, but I don't really want to anyway. Baby wearing isn't really my thing, but it seems to be the best way to really calm him right now.Just as many position options available as the wraps.Cons:Stretches out after use. I have to put it on a rinse cycle and then pop it in the dryer every few days, but it's not a big deal. I just prefer it tighter so he doesn't sink down too much.It says you can use it with a brand new born, but I really found it easier to use once my son was 4-5 weeks now that he has a bit more head control and is bigger (10 lb). It was just too hard when he was 2 weeks or so to keep him from sliding into a ball in there. That makes monitoring the baby's breathing a little tougher. I had the same issue when I tried out a wrap. Could be I just wasn't really doing it correctly.I would definitely recommend the baby k'tan. I'm looking forward to trying out the future positions once he's bigger and has even more head control. Like I said, it's helping me keep my sanity with a baby that's a bit colicky!


