1352678400
2.0
review/summary: Worked well, but now horrible rashesreview/text: I used these diapers for my little girl since she was born - were working great. When it was time to switch to size 3, I changed to the Pampers Cruisers which was a huge mistake - they immediately gave her a horrible rash. I had to call Pampers and they sent me some coupons for the hassle and assured me that the diapers are all the same and contain the exact same "ingredients".Well, since Pampers Swaddlers had been working well, I saw that they still made them in size 3 and switched back to Swaddlers. They seemed to work okay, but she was still getting irritated skin and diaper rashes a lot more frequently. She never really had this problem before or with other brands I used that had been gifted to me. I'm not one to let her sit in a wet/soiled diaper, so I started wondering if it was something that she was eating (since around this same time, diet was changing a lot). Well, recently she got the worst diaper rash I have ever dealt with and what appeared to be burn marks. It was horrible! She was screaming in pain every time I had to change her. I just had a feeling it was the diaper again, and immediately changed her into some generic Costco diapers that someone had given me. The rash immediately started going away although it took a few days because it had gotten so bad so quickly. What appeared to be burn marks have not gone away yet (after 1 1/2 weeks) but are looking better daily.I have been really frustrated with Pampers. They were very dismissive when I talked with them about the Cruisers saying that their diapers were not the cause of the problem. I haven't even bothered calling them about this most recent episode because I feel it will be more of the same. And I know it's hard to pinpoint exactly why the Swaddlers size 3 have now caused issues when the smaller sizes did not. The only things I can try to attribute it to are: a higher amount of the chemical "DryMax" in the diaper starting with size 3 (this seemed to be partially confirmed by some websites I was browsing to get more info) so with my daughter it's now causing a reaction; or, possibly the change in my daughter's diet has caused a reaction with these diapers now whereas, before, just with breast milk/formula, it wasn't an issue. I've read a lot of comments on various blogs and forums that babies with more acidic urine will have issues with these diapers containing DryMax. And yes, even though not advertised anymore, from my research DryMax is still found in Swaddlers and Cruisers diapers (except for Swaddlers Sensitive N-2). It's unclear whether DryMax is in the Pampers Baby Dry line.Anyone who's done a little research here will note that there was a class-action lawsuit that was settled within the last couple of years regarding the DryMax technology. Because of this, Pampers no longer uses the name DryMax in its marketing. It appears that it was never confirmed by any consumer agencies involved in the investigation that the diapers are the cause of the rashes and chemical burns claimed. However, in my opinion, one must remember that these organizations make mistakes and although they pretend to be neutral, are still highly self-interested. They approve products/medications/foods all of the time which later are recalled for causing harm. I just say, buyer beware. We can't always trust the "professionals."You know, for those that can use Pampers and their kids have no problems, that's great! For me, it's been a very bad experience and I just want to make sure people are educating themselves and can hopefully avoid these bad issues or know how to resolve them quickly if they arise.It makes me so frustrated because Pampers have the best fit for my daughter and I wish I could continue to use them. But, nothing's worth the horrible pain it started causing my daughter.


