1358553600
4.0
review/summary: Great baby gate for bottom of the stairs.review/text: I've tried two different gates before I purchased this one.I have banisters on one side and dry wall on the other side of the stairway. So, it was a little tricky to find a perfect match.I am so thankful to Amazon's return policy on baby items. UPS came to my house and picked up my returning items next day and my money was refunded in few days. I didn't have to go through any hassles to return the items in this cold weather with my babies.I really wanted to get the one that the gate completely swings open in and out with having anything on the bottom, but failed.However, I got this one for the bottom of the stairs and works pretty good! No tripping over so far since I installed it very close to the first step of the stairs. Installation was fairly easy. I didn't bother my husband to have this one up.Pressure mount holds very sturdy. The previous one that I had to nail screws actually fell from the drywall side of the gate.Ugh!!!! Make sure you don't install those too tight, otherwise you won't be able to open the gate. The gate looks bent initially before you install as the instruction says, but the line becomes straight as you fasten the pressure mounts properly.It's very sturdy and secure. I would not recommend this gate for the top of stairs because of the bottom doesn't swing open together. I took 1 star off, because it's a little tight to pass through the door. I'm about 130 lbs, 5'4".I used dreambaby banister adapter(http://www.amazon.com/Dreambaby-Banister-Gate-Adaptors-Silver/dp/B002IAR954/) on one end and worked perfectly. I like the auto lock feature, but it will stay open at a certain angle if you wish. It's easy to open the door. The one I have on the top of the stairs (http://www.amazon.com/Regalo-Extra-Tall-Stair-White/dp/B003VNKLIE/) is really painful to open and close, but only one works for my home. So, I kept it.I will post the picture. I'm so glad I'm done looking and installing the gates now.


