1355788800
4.0
review/summary: Excellent carrierreview/text: There are pros and cons to every wrap, and this one is no exception. That said, if I could only have one wrap, it would probably be the Moby Wrap; it does everything, and while it can be tougher to get used to, it's ultimately more flexible - both literally (softer) and in terms of use.Most reviews cover the basic pros and cons. I'll recap those, but I want to start by pointing out a couple of things I haven't seen mentioned elsewhere.First, I highly recommend getting a LIGHT color in the organic material. Reason being this carrier is warm to begin with; even a moderately warm day, in a black, heavy jersey material carrier your baby will get HOT. Second, babies get cradle cap - many of them quite a bit. Nothing like putting on your precious new carrier and putting in your precious new baby and 10 minutes later it looks like it has snowed on the carrier. (I foolishly got the black, thinking this color might incline my husband to wear it more.) And organic? Because chances are, your baby will chew on it like crazy after 3 months.Second, be aware that not every baby will like every carrier all the time, and not every carrier will work for every situation. My daughter hated the Moby - for the first month. My daughter loved the Ergo - after three months. My daughter plain hated the sling, but I think that was the fault of the poor material of the Seven Slings sling. (Go Maya Wrap.) A Moby is wonderful to put on in the morning and forget about, using off and on all day - making it perfect for at-home use or short use during errands - but as it can get bunched up and too loose in parts as the day goes on, and thus requiring re-wrapping, I find that for long walks I prefer the Ergo. Similarly, it's great because of the one-size-fits-all aspect - but if you're trading it back and forth frequently, a structured carrier like the Ergo is much easier to work with (no worries about dragging it on the ground at the park during the re-tying phase). A squirmy baby might be easier in the Ergo (no pulling loose panels), but a colicky baby seems to do better in the more confining, incredibly soft Moby. You never think about how stiff fabric can be until you're holding it against a newborn; that's one of my favorite aspects of the Moby. It felt like an extension of me, almost - like I'd popped her inside my shirt. It's very similar to feeling pregnant again, only much less hard on the ligaments!So although I certainly didn't want to hear it, the truth is most people need at least two kinds of wraps, maybe three. And keep in mind that babies have opinions and may love or hate a specific carrier depending on the day.To recap some of those other frequently mentioned cons and pros:CONS:- less structured, more easily loosened & requiring retying; not as good for long-term wear or long walks (which isn't to say it isn't good for wearing for hours at a time puttering around in the house; just not ideal for fast-paced walking in the woods, in my experience)- no back support like a structured carrier- can overheat baby in summer (or even late spring, depending on your climate)- requires practice and watching a lot of videos to learn how to wrap (better yet, join a mom's group and ask someone to help you!)- bulky, if you intend to try to carry it in your purse (better to just wear it out)PROS:- extremely secure hold - comparable to a more structured carrier, unlike slings, making it possible (halleluia!) to have two functional hands; makes grocery shopping, house cleaning, even a little cooking possible (prep work, cold foods)- spreads out the weight on your body well; no shoulder pain- soft, soft, soft- buy organic, perfect when your baby starts chewing on everything (my baby did at 3 months)- light color camouflages dandruff- excellent at keeping baby warm- womb-like tightness exceptionally useful for crying babies (essentially works as swaddling)- can breastfeed in with practice- one size fits all- multiple wrap styles - critical for the picky baby- no starter weight limit; you can use it straight out of the hospital- easy to store; just hang folded a few times on a hanger (unlike the bulky structured carriers that take up all the space in your closet)- super easy to clean - toss it in the laundry, no parts to remove- no parts to lose


