1355788800
5.0
review/summary: PERFECT! We love it.review/text: We bought this to corral our daughter who is just about 6 months old. We used to let her sleep on a bed, but after she started rolling so much that wasn't a safe idea anymore, so we started putting her on the floor...but then she would roll into stuff. In this Pack 'N Play, she can roll to her heart's content, and I don't have to worry about her falling or getting stuck anywhere strange; worst case scenario, she ends up cuddled up to some mesh. That's great.The first thing I noticed about this Pack 'N Play is that it is extremely easy to set up. It only took a couple minutes. And, it's obviously made to be popped up and put away and popped up and put away, so you don't have to be all that committed when you set it up. Unlike a crib that requires special tools and someone to hold the pieces in place while you fasten them, this Pack 'N Play could probably be set up one-handed. It is also easy to move around once you have it set up, because there are wheels on one side, so you can just lift the other side and roll the playard.The second thing I noticed is that it had a strong chemical odor. We've had it set up for several days now, and it is already much better.I wondered whether the bassinet version would be too high up for my daughter--would it only be for brand new babies? Nope! It's just right for her, so that was good.We bought a mattress to go inside; the green pad on this is eh, well, it works, but it isn't something I'd want to hang out on for very long. It was kind of tough to know which mattress would fit, because Amazon seems to have a lot of options available, and some of them have descriptions that are not really clear. We boughtDream On Me 3" Foam Graco Pack 'n Play Mattressand it fits perfectly. The sheet that we bought wasCarters Easy Fit Jersey Portable Crib Fitted Sheet. So, if you're confused by Amazon's suggestions, and by various product descriptions and reviews, you can go with those and I think you'll be quite happy with them.If you're considering this Pack 'N Play, I highly recommend it. We are very happy with it.


