1359936000
1.0
review/summary: TOXIC! Do your research first!review/text: We use lots of 7th Gen products and were using their wipes for years, also switched to their diapers which are by far better than Earth's Best or any others we've tried. With my daughter years ago and now with my son, baby wipes are more than for wiping bums...use anytime/anywhere need a quick wipe - before/after eating, get stain out of clothes, clean up messes/hands, etc. So besides quality and truly natural ingredients and good texture, it's also about versatility and convenience. The old wipes were hands down better in texture...they were soft, stretchy (if you wanted to stretch them a bit), and left zero lint/residue behind. If 7th Gen really wanted to improve the old wipes, all they had to do was make them a bit thicker, add a little more moisture/solution, and change up the ingredients a bit to lessen the more harmful ones like potassium sorbate and sodium benzoate. Instead, they completely changed the texture/composition...sure it's thicker, but the pattern/grooves in it are still very thin, making me paranoid about messes seeping through to the other side easily...and they do rip easily and sometimes not separate, making them a pain to get out. Secondly, they are rougher and more like paper towel. Third, they are too wet and I don't buy that the formulation is necessarily that much less toxic...plus, they leave a soapy residue behind on my son's bottom. Fourth, my son started getting diaper rash, which he has never had for almost 2 years since birth...I realize why also his skin was irritated...I was using the wipes on my mouth after eating and after only a couple one-time uses, I have visible burn-like marks and dry patches around my mouth...imagine how much worse to have your bum wiped with them a couple to few times, several times a day! Lastly, wipe a surface or dark clothing and you will see TONS of white fuzz/lint coming off onto the surface...then it dries quickly and becomes airborn...not something I want baby or me breathing! This then eliminates many of the usefulness of the baby wipes for me that I was used to. Tried to find a safer alternative since the company has no clue when they will address these issues if ever, but so many that say they are natural/safe, all have harmful ingredients (check EWG database)...only/best one I found that only had one questionable ingredient was Treehouse by NatureClean...I plan to try these next and hope they are more like the old formula.Also, please note it seems they RAISED the concentration of sodium benzoate - ie moved it up in the ingredients list in the new wipes. Read about what that ingredient can do to your child here at the link below I just found and am even more alarmed. I'm even concerned there might be some link between our use of 7th Gen wipes for almost 2 years since birth and our son's developmental and health issues. 7th Gen seems to compromise quite a bit with their "natural" ingredients and I'm looking for other products. Treehouse wipes mentioned above are being discontinued...if you find any TRULY natural wipes, please comment and let me know. In the meantime, I'm going to try to make my own with chlorine-free towels, water, tea tree castile soap, and earth mama angel baby baby wash. Thank you! [...]


