1353801600
5.0
review/summary: One of our best baby-gear purchases, a must-havereview/text: We received a Fisher-Price Healthy Care Deluxe Booster Seat, Red/White from our baby registry. Originally I had though we would use it only when travelling. I kept looking for our long-term high chair but couldn't find the right one: too expensive, too many crevices, stain-prone material, uncomfortable design. After my son outgrew our Inglesina, we started using the Fisher-Price seat full-time and LOVED it! My son started using it at 6 months old, now at 18 months old. It's our high-chair at home for nightly dinners and packs up easily for the occasional trip.(EASY TO CLEAN) It's incredibly easy to keep clean. The plastic surfaces wipe clean in seconds, and there's no fabric to catch food and stains. The extra tray attachment is awesome--it helps us get through more than one meal without having to wait for the main tray to be washed. And both can be tossed into the dishwasher!(COMFORTABLE) Even with the all-plastic design, it's quite comfortable. The back support is a good height (a problem we had with the Inglesina) and the bottom is contoured for comfort and safety, no wiggle-outs. In summer, we put down a clean cloth diaper to prevent sticking. This might be a bigger concern for someone in a hot, humid climate but we live in the Pacific Northwest with cool summers.(SAFETY) I've never had to worry about safety with the Fisher-Price seat. Two adjustable sets of straps secure it to almost any chair with a back in seconds. Sometimes my 25-lb son gets super-excited about what he's eating. Even at his wiggliest, the seat stays put and the chair remains stable.(VALUE) We'll be able to use our Fisher-Price seat longer thanks to the adjustable straps, booster height, and tray depth. It's easily folded down and packed into the car for trips.Functionally I'm in love with our Fisher-Price seat, but it does look like a typical child's booster seat. We also used an Inglesina 2011 Fast Table Chair, Basilico (hook-on high chair) when my son was 4 months old. It was a nice chair when he was small (~4 months old) but within a couple months, he was tall enough to boost himself up using the table skirt and this added to my concern about the weight limit. We looked at other modern, high-end chairs like the Keekaroo and Stokke Tripp Trapp. While these models might have looked nice with our other furniture, I wasn't sure how comfortable he would be and it didn't seem worth the extra money. Ultimately we've been very happy to give up a small bit of style for the incredible value, comfort, and safety we enjoy with our Fisher-Price seat.


