1360108800
5.0
review/summary: High Quality Metal Gate-Great For Keeping Strong Dogs Containedreview/text: I have 2 large dogs. One 75 pound pointer mix and a 65 pound muscular pitbull. My pitbull is a real sneak and climbs up onto the couch when we are not looking or are not at home. She ruined our last couch with her bear like claws and ripped up the leather by jumping on it all of the time. We just got a new couch a few days ago and she started climbing on it again and was being a pain in the butt again. Sheesh! This dog is really a character, lol.I had about enough and decided to get a gate because I do not want to have to crate her when I am unable to supervise her. I looked on the internet for over an hour for a very strong fence that she could not chew up. I read countless reviews and finally decided on this one because it was made out of metal instead of plastic or wood like most of the others. I also could not find one of this quality for such a great price. The other brands were very expensive and I am on a budget.A wood or plastic one would last about one hour with her because she has very strong jaws and would not hesitate to chew on it if she wanted to get in. She is also like a bull in a china cabinet. She can actually open doors in my house just by head butting them until they pop open.It came very quickly! Kudos to Amazon. When I took it out of the box it was very attractive and quite sturdy. The bronze color is very nice and goes with the browns and chocolate colored furniture and decorations that I have in my den.At first I was afraid that this gate would be too short and she may be able to jump over it. Thank goodness she hasn't been able to do that thus far. My other dog, who happens to be double her height cannot get over it as well. It took a few minutes to install. There were some complaints that said the fence came bent. This is because you need to adjust the tension mounts on each side until the fence straightens out. This is supposed to be like that.It locks on the top by a groove and also locks in place on the bottom as well. The lock is very strong and no amount of headbutting by my stubborn dog is going to get it open unless she grows opposable thumbs and learns how to push the slide lever and lift the gate's door in an upward motion to get it open. My 10 and 12 year old kids even had trouble opening it until I showed them several times how to unlock it.I also like the fact that you push it or pull it open and it opens and closed in two directions. I also like the fact that it automatically closes behind you or can stay open if you choose. These are great features!No more worrying about my naughty doggie, when I am unable to supervise her. This really takes a load off of my back! Now I can leave my house in peace and know she will not ruin my den furniture anymore. Hooray! I bet Oreo, hates the North States Supergate, lol.


