1352505600
5.0
review/summary: My 12.5 month son loves it. Good stable walkerreview/text: my son was 12 months old and needing a good walker to help him learn how to walk. I wanted to find something that is smooth rolling/easy to push around, while had good enough designs to keep the child interested in the toy. At first I saw a Fisher Price walker at a collegue's house, and his daughter loves it, so I planned to buy it to, but further research on Amazon showed that walker was too light and easily topples over, which can cause a child to get injured if they were running and running at a high speed while playing the toy. This led me to the V-tech walker and based on the reviews I took the plunge. 1 month later, here are the results: [stablility/durability of design] - this is an extremely well made walker. The rollers are very smooth and has 2 speeds, one for beginner walkers and one for more advanced. It turns easily for the child, and is very stable. I have not seen it topple over at all, so I have to credit this to the Vtech team. The walker is lightweight yet the distribution of the weight makes it stable. [educational value/fun factor] - another interesting design is the "Facepiece" of the walker is removable. this means the child can play it without the pushing the walker, which is what my son did the first 2 weeks (he was too lazy to push!). this "facepiece" toy has lots of buttons, lights, piano keys, and 2 levels of volume (low/high). it seems fun enough and enough to capture my son's attention daily for a few minutes when he turns his interest to this toy. once this piece is attached to the walker, it makes sounds as it's being pushed as well.Overall: I would rate this 4.5 / 5. I actually received another walker from my mom, and that one topples over so easily it makes the V-tech seem like a design marvel. My son loves it after using it for 1 month, and the only thing preventing it from a full 5/5 is due to my desire that it had a bit more "fun factor" pieces designed onto the faceplate of the walker. However, I am a 34 year old and not a 1 year old toddler, so this should not be taken too seriously. For under 40 dollars i recommend this walker in a heartbeat.


