1344470400
5.0
review/summary: Don't know what i would do without this!review/text: I ordered the Baby K'tan in Sage green back in 2010 to use with my first daughter, Kalina. I knew that I wanted to wear her based on all the benefits I'd read about, plus it just made sense that it would be easier for me to go about life hands-free while keeping her close and happy. I researched a lot of carriers to include all the Infantino line, the Moby Wrap, the Maya Wrap, Baby Bjorn and Ergo Baby. One of Kalina's hips wasn't completely formed so she needed to spend a lot of time in the "froggy" position (legs open, like a frog's rear legs). That meant the Maya Wrap was out because it only offers two positions: sling style (laying across my body, which would put her legs tightly together), or with baby riding on the hip (not appropriate for a newborn with no head control). The Baby Bjorn requires a minimum weight of 8lbs, so I wouldn't be able to use it for Kalina as a newborn since she was only 7lbs. Also, I read a lot of information on how the Baby Bjorn doesn't offer enough support for the baby because of the small "seat" in the carrier. This could cause discomfort in the babys hips. That's the last thing Kalina needed for her bad hip, so the Bjorn was out, too. That left the Moby Wrap and the Baby K'tan (the baby can be placed facing the wearer, in the froggy position). I bought the K'tan on Amazon and while I waited for it to be shipped (we are military stationed overseas, and sometimes the MPO is slow)I also bought a used Moby Wrap. The Moby Wrap took a couple of times of practice to get on correctly. It's not that the steps are difficult, but the LOOOOOOOONG piece of fabric dangling and getting tangled was a bit tricky. I got the hang of it and Kalina felt comfortable inside, while I felt comfortable wearing her. Kalina was a winter baby and I wore her wherever we went, which meant standing outside the car to wrap myself up and then put her inside. The fabric is so long that it would hang all along the ground and get dirty and wet in the snow and rain. Not cool, especially for something that will be wrapped around your child.When the Baby K'tan arrived I was excited to try it out because it seemed to offer all the comfort of the Moby Wrap, without dealing with all the wrapping and long fabric getting dirty. The directions were a bit tricky at first, just like the Moby, but with a couple of tries, it was a piece of cake! I placed Kalina in it for the first time, started walking around and bouncing, and within 10 minutes she was fast asleep. The ease of putting the K'tan on and placing Kalina inside of it was exactly what I was looking for. Add to that the comfortable fit while wearing and how much Kalina loved being in it.....we had a winner! I sold the Moby Wrap to the first interested party.90% of the time I wore Kalina in the froggy position because that's what she liked the best. Once her hip was developed I wore her a couple of times in the "sling", or cradle, position. It was still comfortable for me, but she seemed to prefer the froggy position. Once she had head control I wore her facing forward, which she loved when she was curious and wanted to see the world. When she was tired or crabby, I wore her in the froggy position and she would calm down and sleep very quickly, or simply ride around quiet and awake. We travel A LOT, and the K'tan goes with us. No hassling with a stroller. I began to call the K'tan "The Zone," becuase when I put Kalina in it, she was in the zone: happy. I sincerely attribute her calm, good-natured baby ways to her personality AND "The Zone."The K'tan is perfect to wear during nearly any activity: house cleaning, grocery shopping, vacuuming (put Kalina to sleep like THAT!), going for walks...the list goes on and on! I even wore Kalina while I mowed the lawn and while I did squats and lunges! She was always in the zone, which meant she very rarely cried, took longer naps and I could continue my life.When Kalina began walking and was too big to be worn, I lent the K'tan to a friend who had a 3 month old son. He was fussy unless being held, so she couldn't get anything done. I helped her put it on and put him inside and he passed out within 10 minutes of being worn! Then he stayed asleep for 3 hours! She was so impressed and happy that she ordered her own and became hooked on using it....just like me!I ordered the size medium (I am 5'7" and weigh between 135-150lbs) and after wearing it for awhile it fits a little big. The fabric stretches out, like most fabric will if it's in a constant state of tension (like having it stretched around a body with weight in it). However, I simply wash and dry it and it's back to fitting perfectly. I laundered it countless times and it still looks brand new. No color fade, no worn look, whatsoever.I now use the K'tan with my second daughter, Amara. Kalins is 22 months old and Amara is 10 weeks old. The K'tan was a lifesaver with one child, but with two young children, it is priceless! I can wear Amara while chasing around and taking care of Kalina. It's great and I don't know what I would do without it. I highly recommend the Baby K'tan over any other wrap or carrier out there. We actually bought an Ergo Baby Carrier for my husband to wear because he can't wear the same K'tan as me (and doesn't want to wear a wrap because he thinks they are too feminine). The Ergo was uncomfortable to wear and Amara fit in it ackwardly, even with using the newborn insert. Not a fan, though I see many people using them here in Germany. As fo me, I'm a Baby K'tan fan through and through!I hope this wasn't too long, but I wanted to give the reader an idea of how wonderful the K'tan is compared to the various other products out there. I hope I can save you some time in your search. Just by a K'tan!


