1351555200
5.0
review/summary: 4 months, 24 inches long still a little to short for it but still had fun.review/text: I got this at my baby shower. It was sooo hard to wait to use this with my baby until he was 4 months old and had good head support to use it. I have read so many reviews of baby loving this and I couldn't wait to get my baby into it. When my baby was 3.5months old he had really good head support so I decided to put him in it. He really enjoys it, but only for a small time. Right now he is too short to reach the ground on the lowest setting so I have to put a pillow under his feet but he still likes to play with all the toys on the jumperoo.My son is now 4.5 months old and 24 inches long and is still too short to reach the ground. He is about an inch and half off the ground so he still uses a pillow. He loves the toys a lot. He likes to chew on the bug and grab at the monkey and bird. He has figured out that if he jumps just a bit it will trigger the jungle sounds and as soon as the jungle sounds stop he will jump just enough to have them go again. I think once he is big enough to not need the pillow under his feet anymore he will really get into this toy.Some of the things I don't like, It is hard to get him in the jumperoo. I lower him in the seat but he manages to keep his feet on the seat and not go through the leg holes. So I have to bend down and hold him to my shoulder to support him while I reach down with my other arm and guide his legs into the leg holes. It is awkward. Also, getting him out is hard. It is hard to really get a good hand hold on him to lift him out because he is surrounded by the jumperoo. Then pulling him out the seat part come out with him and some times his legs gets stuck on the leg holes and I have to untangle him from it. I wish it was easier to get him in and out of the jumperoo.Assembly is very easy. While my son was doing tummy time I was able to put this together before he got too cranky with tummy time. I say it took me about 15 minutes to put together. The instructions are really easy to follow. He did start getting cranky before I was able to put all the toys on so I put him in the jumperoo before I attached all the toys and he watched me as I snapped all the toys in place and then played with them with him. His first jump, with help from me, he was instantly smiling. He likes it the best when we bounce him up and down.I am going to give it five stars even though I have seat issues because I can get around that and my son really enjoys playing in the jumperoo. Plus, I think the more times I put him in it he will figure out himself to put his legs through the leg holes. So, I believe that won't be a problem in the future just taking him out will be a struggle.


