1359676800
3.0
review/summary: Toy Bar Needs Improvementreview/text: In person, this rocker is just as bright and colorful as in the picture. After looking at a couple older infant-to-rocker models, it is clear that Fisher Price found a way to further increase the stability of the rocker in the front. They include longer plastic pieces that attach to the base frame, lengthening the front (to greatly lessen the chance of forward flipping).The vibration of the seat is strong (though it only comes with one setting). I am able to comfortably rock it with my feet from the side while sitting in a chair or at the edge of my bed. It rocks smoothly-even on our carpeting. The rocking motion I use reminds me of an old fashioned sewing machine you work with your feet. I really love that it can handle 10-15 lbs. more weight than most swings(up to 40lbs).I like that it assembles quickly without a lot of pieces, so I can easily break it down to fit in a suitcase for travel (especially since it does NOT fold up when fully assembled). The seat cover is soft enough. It attaches with clasps in the back and comes off easily for washing. You can tuck the harness and straps completely through slots in the seat. This way, it is able to "disappear" when being used as a toddler rocker.There is an underside bar that swings forward in order to set the chair in a fixed recline. There are strong written warnings against using this for prolonged periods of sleep. The chair has an incline/decline feature. You have to depress both large green buttons (one on each side of the chair). This is fairly easy to do. There are visual markings (also on both sides) that indicate which setting the seat is in.The main issue I have is with the toy bar. These are hard plastic pieces that roughly swing in baby's face-even when gently rocking the chair. This is not soothing. Though I'm glad there's no possibility of one flying off (they are molded to the bar). It is frustrating that I cannot take these off to clean well or change them out for softer toys-or anything else, once baby gets bored.Unfortunately, the rocker squeaks when I rock it, but ONLY when the toy bar is on (the squeaking is coming from where the white plastic ends of the toy bar lock into the sockets affixed to the frame).There is no quiet way to take off this toy bar once baby is asleep. It is jarring. You also have to get a good, firm grip on both sides of the toy bar in order to get it off. Often, the bar catches on one side or the other if I'm not really careful.The toy bar's flat square and rectangle pieces have lion and giraffe STICKERS instead of being toy animals that can be held, so the play is limited. The cleaning challenge regarding stickers is also something to consider.I also noticed that the shapes of these paddles actually have a fanning effect when the seat is being rocked. Other family members can feel a definite chill coming from them swinging back and forth-not good for baby, especially in colder climates.There are hard plastic circles affixed to the top of the animal panels and elephant toy with smaller plastic dots along the actual bar. The 3 main (larger) circles have numbers "1," "2"and "3" engraved upon them. It would have been better if the actual numbers stood out more, so that baby can clearly see them (with different colors in print like the dots on the elephant). However, I am thankful that the numbers are engraved rather than also being stickers.The middle elephant is the heaviest piece on the toy bar. It takes three "Button Cell Batteries" that are included, though I wish they were a common battery type that the average person has on hand, to easily switch out. If you lightly grab the ring that dangles below it (with two much smaller rings attached), a couple bars of ONE song plays "Skip to My Lou."In all, I like the rocker itself, but the toy bar is disappointing.


