1355702400
5.0
review/summary: Excellent Potty for ECreview/text: Our family is just starting EC (elimination communication) with our 5 month old son. I take it back, we're coming back to it after a break due to some other events in the family that just made it too challenging. While this potty isn't making the whole EC process any easier, it's certainly making it more pleasant for everyone involved.First off, this potty is wonderfully small, which makes it ideal for our purposes. At the same time it's big enough that my 3 year old can sit on it and could quite likely use it, not that he does. He prefers to use the toilet like a big boy, but I can see this potty being useful for long-term use in our family, and both for larger and smaller children.Our second favorite feature of this particular potty chair is the back. We had looked at other potties without a back, but this one makes it ideal for our purposes. Our little guy can sit on this potty chair on his own (closely supervised, of course). Potty time is more enjoyable because he can lean back and won't topple over off the potty, which means our little one finds it so nice. He much prefers it to using the toilet or another receptacle. He particularly likes to sit on it while holding on to my knees, or to sit with his feet propped up on that rise in the front, putting him in a more classic EC squat without needing someone to hold him in that position. This allows me the ability to sit in front of him easily to hold his hands while he sits, or as he seems to prefer, holding my knees while between my legs while I sit on the couch in front of him.I can imagine for EC purposes this may be challenging for potty time with a younger baby as the back could get in the way, but I think it could be managed to potty the baby while facing the back of the potty chair similar to the way you would sitting in front of a full sized toilet. I can't comment on how it would work for a younger baby though as we got it when he was so much older.Overall, for both EC purposes and more traditional potty time, this potty chair is great. It's pretty light, easy to transport, and easy to clean. While it's not as small as other potty chairs that may be more convenient for on the go, it's easy to move from room to room as need be and could easily enough be put in the back of a car to be taken on the road. We're probably going to look for a travel potty solution that may work better for traveling, but for the time being we can make this work.Since this potty is so small and incredibly stable (our 3 year old and 5 month old can both sit on it securely without knocking it over) I can see this potty being useful for not just the EC baby, but also for a smaller child learning to use the potty. Small toddlers may find this ideal because it's such an easy, convenient size for self-directed use. Both my boys love this potty. For my family it was a great investment.


