1346025600
4.0
review/summary: Great diapers for size 2 and beyond, in my personal opinion the best boy diaper!review/text: I have 3 children, with my first child i tried every diaper out there and stuck to pampers thinking those were the best, its what the hospital gave us, because of the swaddlers used in the hospital. Unfortunately we had a lot of leaks, in the corners by the crotch area, and I didnt think the diapers varied that much, i thought i was buying the best there was. I chocked that up to that diapers arent perfect and you are going to have some leaks. But diapers are expensive, so i started to try different brands, and i found different brands had their positives and negatives, i even used the premiums for a while, which i agree are probably some of the better diapers but completely not necessary unless you are trying to keep your child sitting in their diapers for hours, and not changing them often enough. I finally ended on pampers the regular ones with him, after finding that costco had a really good deal on them, and a family member was helping me out on occasion buying them for me as a gift. I recently had twins, and i really stumbled on to the challenges of diaper duty. These diapers i have pretty much stuck with the whole time since we got out of the preemie and newborn size for the past 3 years and i have to say we rarely have leaks with these, i remember when the older child we always seemed to have some sort of leak on the edge. with the huggies my boys rarely have an issues although talking with other moms, with girls they have different experience, and sometimes swear on other brands. As for me with boys I Love the huggies snug and dry. Like i said i've tried everything in every price range. If you want to avoid leaks and have a toddler boy go this route. My boys are 4 now, and are a bit delayed developmentally and unfortunately we are still using diapers, and i have a feeling we will get to experence the size 7 diapers but the huggies hold up, and hold in what they need to! The only other diaper we will use is the huggies overnights, but as the boys are are getting older the overnights aren't becoming such a necessity! The only other diaper we used beside the different premie and newborn diapers where the natural chemical free ones when the boys had severe diaper rashes. But if you want a diaper that holds in what its supposed to and have a boy go this route!! As a mom of 3 boys, We love huggies!


