1349308800
4.0
review/summary: Great toy!review/text: ive been reading some of these reviews and i must say, i think some people on here were dropped on their heads one too many times. any of these toys with wheels that are to be pushed are going to MOVE...that is the POINT. yes it can go a little quickly but your child will learn how to handle it. mine did! shes a smart cookie and had no problems figuring it out. i wouldnt recommend relying on this to TEACH a child how to STAND but its great once they learn how to stand. she took to it well and started pushing it all over. yes she got a little too excited some times and pushed it too hard and made it go faster to the point where shed fall down, BUT guess what? SHE GOT BACK UP and started playing with it again. If you sit there going "OMG OMG OMG! MY POOR BABY!" whenever they fall theyre going to always panic and cry whenever they fall! use it on carpet and let them LEARN to get back up and try again! its really simple people. and to the person who wants BRAKES on this thing? SERIOUSLY? do you want it to teach the kid how to use the brakes as well? maybe take over watching your child all together so you dont have to? spin some straw into gold? come on now!so, in all honesty, from someone NOT expecting a miracle toy but something fun, entertaining and helpful for my child, i feel this was a great purchase and my daughter LOVES it. she pushes it around; drags it around; flips it over; flips it back; takes the front off to play with on the floor, etc. she seems to be handling it just fine, no problem. oh and i got this for her first birthday (she got it about a month early) since she learned how to stand and had been holding on to furniture walking. This helped her to transition from using furniture to moving all over besides the perimeter and eventually on to her own without assistance. however, we didnt rely only on this to teach her to walk. we also just held her hands and had her walk around with us. no toy will ever substitute being a parent!


