1353542400
4.0
review/summary: Cloud B Giraffe Soothing soundsreview/text: **This was a surprise baby shower gift we never really thought about purchasing ourselves but we're officially sold on this product and have been for 19 months!'Mr. Gee' is our 19 month daughter's favourite sleeping-soother. We mainly use the second sound (Safari Trail?) but occasionally the first one (Safari Groove) is popular during day naps. The Waterfall is a great white noise background.Pro's: Soft fur, hair/ears/'antlers' have been great for fiddly night fingers to rub. 3 of the 4 sounds (mentioned above) are great for all of us (heartbeat is a bit startling to hear if Gee get's rolled over on and sounds change). We side-carred our crib to our bed-google if you don't know what that means-so we have actually become quite attached to Mr. Gee. Daughter is big enough to cuddle with him and his neck is long enough to kinda curl over her shoulder like a hug. The fold out 'book' included was cute but definitely needs to be saved to read again more often when child is older and can interact with the story and make the connections to the noises. Battery life seems to be AMAZING. We've had continuous multi-hours at a time daily use and have only replaced the batteries ONCE.Cons: Like the others who have posted about the timed element of this I agree that we would have LOVED a continuous play feature. 25 minutes was too short for us. 45 minutes felt like the beginning of a nice nap/sleep that more often or not was interrupted by waking silence. At least a 90 minute setting might feel like a good medium. I don't know if anyone else feels the velcro securing the noise box into the back pouch seems like it could be tightened a bit more. It's definitely not a danger, just not as tight as I'd like it to be. Now that our daughter is older she's discovered taking the box out and will lay with it pushing buttons. Might be a concern to some just keep an eye on the kiddos if you've got a curious gut snatcher on your hands.We have purchased several Cloud B products for ourselves and family because we have been so happy with this unexpected baby shower gift.**The only reason I am giving this a 4 star review is because the timed settings ideally would include much longer options.


