1359417600
4.0
review/summary: Annoying to install/open but worksreview/text: We installed this gate on the kitchen door frame which was only 29&#34; wide and it works great. We didn't need the 2 extensions that came with it. For now, we just use the tension to keep it in place. When our daughter gets stronger we might consider drilling in the place holder for extra security.Our baby girl hasn't been able to open it and it keeps her out of the kitchen completely which saves us a lot of hassle of installing any safety measures in the kitchen.The instruction for this gate were simple enough but we also checked out the video on how to install this properly to be safe.The gate was annoying to install by yourself since you have to tighten both bottom right and left at the same time then the top right and left to get the correct pressure on the tension. Or you could do one and then the other little at a time but that took too long. By doing this correctly the gate with be strong, steady and straight.As the instruction indicated the gate is propped open and uneven until you get the tension on the frame just right. We didn't have any of the problem with this. Once it was completed it works great. You could swing the door open and it stays in place on either sides. There is a rotated lock on the top to completed locks it for extra security as well. The doorway is 17&#34; wide and the gate is 29&#34; tall. I'm 5'-7&#34;, medium built with short legs and my husband is 6'-1&#34; and heavy built and we both get through/climb over it just fine.The only thing I found a bother was this small trigger on the underside of the lock that you must use your index finger to pull back and lift the door at the same time to open the door. I got away with this by loosen the tension on top so that it pulls away from the lock a little so that I don't have to pull it as much, but this is also not as safe bc your child could open the door more easily unless you rotate the mechanism to lock it completely. We are getting away with it for now bc our daughter is only crawling/standing and use assisted walkers but doesn't have the strength to open it yet.


