1345766400
1.0
review/summary: Sorry but...I hated this thing!review/text: So....in theory the Moby Wrap is a great concept. I just had my third child 7 weeks ago and registered for it because of all the rave reviews. It sounded great. A fabric carrier that kept baby safe and snug all while being stylish...awesome right? ....WRONG! When I first took it out of the box I was kind of shocked by the amount of fabric it came with. I'm 5'4 and that thing is like 15ft long...you do the math. But I didn't let that deter me. I read the instructions countless times and watched the step by step instruction videos about a billion times (well it felt like it). I finally got the hang of it.....but even then it took a while to put on...all while poor baby is screaming his head off. Then once you have it on there's no way to adjust it if it's too loose or too tight without taking the whole thing off and starting all over agin. Also his head never seemed secure...I still felt like I had to keep a hand on his back or head at all times....which kind of defeats the purpose of the carrier. Plus he never seemed comfortable. He was always leaning to one side and would fuss after a few minutes.Oh and you can forget about using this thing in public.....unless you put it on before you leave the house and keep it on all day....which rarely happens because it loosens after awhile. Let me give you a true life example to paint a little picture about how impractical this thing is. We were in a restaurant (husband and two other small kids) and our precious baby boy starts fussing. So I pick him up to comfort him. Then after awhile I decide to put the wrap on so I can eat. Let me just say....it was very comical watching me trying to put it on....all while trying to keep it from touching the dirty ground....and with 15ft of fabric that wasn't easy...had to enlist the whole family to help out which was quite the spectacle in the restaurant lol. Another time I took him grocery shopping with me and tried putting it on in the car before we went in.....another frustrating yet comical moment.So all in all was definitely not for us. I'll give it one star because it may be good for some people. I would say maybe for a SLEEPING newborn...and if you never leave the house...that way if it's touching the floor at least it's in your own house where you can control the cleanliness.I just bought the new britex baby carrier a week ago and I freaking love it. So simple and easy to use. Baby just slides into place and straps snap right on...baby feels so secure and safe and comfortable...falls asleep in it every time. I would recommend that or something like that over the Moby wrap any day.


