1349136000
1.0
review/summary: DO NOT BUY FROM THIS SELLERreview/text: This product is very awkward, and is impossible to secure. I contacted the seller to return the item as defective and they have informed me that they do not accept "used or open" baby items- even though I obviously had to open the box to discover that the item is defective. The seller refuses to compensate for shipping costs and didn't even both suggesting sending out a new gate as a return option. I received extremely redundant emails such as this below- Let me state that when I sent BOTH return evals I selected "defective" on the drop down box as to the reason for the return. I suspect that the seller is unable to relate that to the following description of the problem. This is the second or third email I received from them. As you can see- they are unwilling to accept any responsibility. Note: this is only the second time I have ever returned an item on Amazon and this is the worst customer service I have ever had on this site.SELLER "nowhere in that statement is there a mention of the product being "defective" the gate being "awkward and cumbersome" in your estimation do not indicate a defect. How is the product defective? The product would only be defective if a part was not manufactured correctly. these gates are made to be difficult to open and closed as with all safety gates they are designed to be childproof, the mechanism are designed so children cannot open them, this is the most important part of the product. Your suggestion that this is adefect is inccorect this is in fact the safety design of the gate. I personally own these gates and there is specific method to opening and closing the sections, it cannot be done with one hand... yes the gate would be "impossible to secure" with one hand - this was not a safety gate with one handed operation, these are well made gates of durable plastic, it is a playard as described...if it is inded defective we will replace and reimburse return shipping please describe how it is defective and we will authorize a return, however we do not cover return shipping and we also have stated the product being opened and used enough for you to determine "Gates are almost impossible to secure. Very awkward and cumbersome to set up and take down- made very cheaply." means that we cannot consider this as new and we cannot resell it. If the gate does not work for your situation then this is a case of buyers remorse, we cannot be held responsible if you purchased an item that did not meet your needs, you are welcome to return it however it is clear this item has been opened and used...even if only used long enough to detremine it did not fit your needs, however we cannot resell it..it has $0 resale value for us as we do not sell used baby items."


