1346630400
4.0
review/summary: Fine portable boosterreview/text: It's fine, what can I say? Haven't used any other so no idea what the industry standard is. My only complaints are really minor, not deal breakers but enough to wish on a rating star for.Good news:It appears durable enough, we've been using it about a year now but only for travel, which we don't do all that often.The way it straps on to the back and bottom of a chair feels really secure.Easy to cleanI like that it includes a tray cover to keep the part they eat from clean when travelingWhat could be better:The "boost" doesn't go so high, could probably use a bit more height for short kids.The tray is kind of low when babies start to grow a bit, there's not a lot of space between the baby's thighs and the tray. My kid is even on the petite side. I realize part of the point of the booster is to raise the kid to reach the adult table, but sometimes you just don't want 'em there. But overall I imagine a heftier kid than mine would probably start to feel squished in this seat sooner than you'd want.The inner (white) tray snaps off MUCH too easily. I was looking forward to having it both as a spare and to be able to easily bring it to the sink to rinse off, but instead I rarely use it and it's just an extra piece in the way because from the very beginning my 1-year-old could easily pry it off and send food flying. No good.And this is not a problem with the product, in fact it's exactly as described, but I just think people should know this is NOT a full high chair replacement. That would be the excellent "Space Saver" booster which I'm about to review. But even though I didn't start my little one on table food until she was able to sit independently anyway, the seat of this booster was still not supportive enough for her at that point (I think she was about 9 months old when we first got this) - she was too little and wiggly and it just wasn't the same as high chair seats usually are more contoured. The tray is small too, which is perfect for travel and toddlers but not ideal for beginning eaters who don't yet understand how to keep their food in one place.Overall, this is an item that I'm very happy to have in my car trunk, but for home I'd probably get a more basic booster when my kid outgrows the high chair. The trays would be squashing her legs by that point and the boost isn't so high, I think most plainer seats would do the job very well or better for home. But for traveling with a baby to toddler, it's near perfect.


