1360627200
5.0
review/summary: Wonderful booster&#8212;all you needreview/text: We have a Peg Perego high chair that worked well for the first month or two of feedings at the table because it reclined which was helpful at the start of feedings, but we have found that this, affordable, light weight, portable chair is the best all around. In fact, we like it so much, that we have one at each grandparent's house and keep one in the car for use when dinning out in addition to the one we use daily at home. It is easy to tote around though, so one will suffice, but for convenience sake, we found having a few a real convenience. We can also use the extras when other kids visit.The seat secures easily with two adjustable nylon straps and clips&#8212;one below a chair's bottom and the other around the back of your chair. We've used it on a variety of chair styles and it has always worked. The seat is simple and contoured for baby's bottom and legs and the entire seat has 3 easily adjustable height setting so that baby can truly pull right up to the table with the rest of the family (note, the seat must be removed from the chair it's on to make this adjustment, but it's rare that you have to change it, as the size of the child determines the best height, not so much the table or chair height.) The baby is secured in the seat by a 3-point harness made of the same adjustable nylon and clips.The tray is simple to put on and remove. It simply clicks onto 1 of 3 nubs along the side of the arm rests. The tray has 3 parts&#8212;a base, insert, and cover. The base attaches to the chair and we use it for every meal. The removable divided insert is ideal for messy meals as you can remove it, clean it off, and even throw it in the dishwasher. Lastly, it has a cover that snaps into place on top. We don't use this at home, but it's handy when eating out to contain any mess left of the tray (or insert) until you can get home to clean it.The only small downside we've experienced is that our child likes to chew on the ends of the seat's lap security straps and that gets them yucky. However, they are permanently attached, so you can't remove them to be washed. I'm always wiping the ends of the straps, soaking them, and trying to come up with good ways to keep them clean. Otherwise the rest of the seat is very easy to keep clean.


