1345852800
3.0
review/summary: Tips for back sleepers, low head pillow users, and people who need free arms...review/text: Now that I'm close to the end of my pregnancy, thought I'd share my experience with this pillow, as someone with the following non-pregnancy sleep patterns:-Back sleeper-Like low/soft head pillows (memory foam neck pillow)-Don't like having arm restrictions-Generally get hot when I sleepIn summary, I bought this pillow to force me, the back sleeper, to sleep on my side. I give it a 3 star for use as designed, but 4 stars when used upside down. It's better than just using separate pillows because the legs are held in place enough to make adjustments easily in the middle of the night (i.e. you don't have to worry about losing your pillows or having the slip too far away). But you do need to find a way to use it that works for you.PROBLEMS:Overall, I didn't like this pillow when used the way shown, and I gave up on it until the 3rd trimester for the following reasons:-Too movement restrictive/arms fall asleep - if you use this the way it's shown, you need to wrap one arm below the pillow to hug it. This was tough for me because I felt too constrained when I slept, and my arms fell asleep sometimes.-Head pillow too high - made my neck sore; needed my own pillow...-Hot! - you are basically surrounded by a big layer of insulation, so this pillow is really hot, particularly with arms wrapped around it.-Bulky - this takes up about half of our king sized bed, so expect complaining husbands if your bed is smaller.(-The tight seam? - as other reviewers complained, the seam on the U is tight. But I found that you can deal with the seam by making sure both legs of the pillow are as close to your body as possible. Didn't find it to dig into my shoulder that much if the legs are not spread out)HOW I MADE IT WORK: Flip it upside-down (bottom of the U at your feet)Flipping it helped me achieve my purpose of staying on my side/getting leg and back support while not being overly restrictive. I would recommend it for back sleepers if used in this configuration.To stay on your side, put the ends of the legs at around chest/belly level (the flaps at the end do help with support). Hug your knees or legs around one of the pillow legs to keep an angle on your belly, but keep the pillow leg on your back side flush against your back so that you can lay against it on your "back". (Found this to be important because if the legs are spread too far apart, you will still end up too much on your back.)If you need to get up in the middle of the night, just lift the top of the outer leg over you and slip out underneath it.It's still a hot pillow, but since a good portion of your upper body is not inside, it isn't nearly as bad as when it's fully around. I basically just used a sheet to cover myself all summer, or nothing at all on really hot days. Bulk can't really be avoided, but alas, who's a husband to argue with a pregnant lady?;)


