1358035200
3.0
review/summary: Baby enjoys it but Mama sees room for improvementreview/text: This colorful play mat has a lot of good features:I really like the baby-activated music setting that doesn't play constant music, but only turns on when baby moves one of the support bars. It has been fun to watch my son realize that he has control of the music.The actual mat has all kinds of textures on it - there's a cat's tail that sticks up, little ribbons sewn on and a rattly leaf. Once he was able to turn over baby wanted to reach for these - and his fine motor skills are budding as he tries to wrap his little fingers around these small objects.He loves the butterflies at the very top - they are only now (well into his 6th month)coming into his reach, but he's been trying to get them for some time. They are backlit by the colored lights so his attention is drawn to them. They move, but not automatically, so for the past 6 months they've just been hanging there.It's great that there are toys on 4 different sides of him, and they can be moved and re-configured.However, there are a few things I would like to see improved upon:It isn't what I'd call portable. It would be really nice to be able to take this along to Grandma's house, but the stabilizer bars don't fold, so even disassembled, it's pretty bulky.The mat's attachment to the stabilizer bars isn't very secure. Every time I pick it up to vacuum, they detach - in fact, they often detach during playtime. It seems like some sort of simple hook would rectify this issue.I understand that the batteries have to be secured from baby's probing fingers. But this is SO secure I can barely access it. AND, when I get the cover unscrewed, the batteries 'pop' out. That's great when you get the dead batteries out, but the fresh batteries want to pop too so it's difficult to get the faceplate re-attached. I think that battery cover should snap on, then let the screw be an extra safety measure instead of the only measure.I would like to say I wouldn't pay the price for this toy again. However, the comparable toys are so closely priced and it really has been something my baby enjoyed that I probably can't say that definitively.


