1345075200
4.0
review/summary: SO Wonderful especially that first month!review/text: As first-time parents especially, we felt quite QUITE overwhelmed when we came home from the hospital on barely any sleep (to get even less at home) and it still amazes me how quickly we would just blank out on the time we had last fed the baby. There came a moment for us that days just merged together and since the baby ate every 2-3 hours on average, but sometimes 1.5 hours apart, we were having the HARDEST time tracking it. Low and behold I got online and found this product and it was God-sent!The way it works is that when you do the action you are tracking, you push the button for it and it starts a clock from that time. It allows you to set a timer for as much as 24 hours apart to alert you when it is time for the next feeding, change, etc. When the time is up the button itself begins to flash in red and doesn't stop flashing until the next time you push it (the clock also doesn't stop until the next time unless it goes over 24 hours, at which point it reverts to 00:00). There is also an audible beep that sounds right when the time is up, which can be turned off if you'd prefer only the lit up button alert. It really is very simple to use. There are 4 buttons to keep track of feedings, diaper changes, naps/sleep, and miscellaneous "*" button for anything else you choose. You can set a timer for each one in between feedings or also as a timer to know how long baby has been napping. The diaper change button became very useful for us whenever our baby had diaper rash because we set the timer for every hour and it allowed us to keep his diaper very fresh.My only complaint/constructive criticism is that I wish it also had a counter. In the beginning, we had to keep track of how many wet and dirty diapers the baby had in a 24-hour period and being able to push a button to keep that count would have been much more helpful than doing it in our minds (atleast for us, our minds were useless for a little bit there until we got the hang of it!), and while this let us track the time passed since our last change, it didn't track how many we had had in the day, so this was the only thing I'd change if I could.All in all, we still VERY much loved this product and it is my new set baby shower gift for all new moms! I wish I had it when we went into the hospital for those first weeks and not after the baby was a little bigger. It is great.


