1348963200
4.0
review/summary: Not for everyone, PERFECT for some.review/text: I LOVE my yard. My baby does not feel trapped at all. I was worried she wouldn't like it because she hated the Pack n' Play and would never let me put her in it. This yard is big enough that she doesn't feel confined. I only gave it 4 stars because the netted portion does have a 'warped' look that is purely cosmetic and takes nothing from the structure.Okay, to address some of the negative reviews:Too hard to put together:Yes, it is a little effort positioning the gate walls. If the hinges were free-swinging, they's be easy for children to move. Then, you'd have all sorts of problems, like little ones pinching their fingers, and easily tipping the gate over! I'm grateful for the click lock hinges. It would be a poor, unsafe product without them. If you plan to fold the gate up on a regular/daily basis, this is not the gate for you. It doesn't make it a bad product, it just doesn't suit those needs. If you plan to set it up once, and rarely take it down, it is perfect!Scoots around floor, or tips over:I want to know how old the children are of the people who said their children tipped this over. I can't even tip it over!! I suspect these reviewers either used more than 10 panels or had them arranged in a square/rectangle position instead of a hexagon/octagon, which is a no-no! The walls are flimsy when straight. When bent at an angle, they are very stable. If I can't tip this over, I know my 8 month old can't. As for being pushed across the floor, mine is on carpet, and my child is young. If it starts scooting when she is walking , I'll update.No doorway:It isn't easy to open the yard up using a wall panel like a gate. If you want to be able to do that a lot, this may not be the gate for you. I open a door so I can sit on the floor outside the gate and play with my child and have little trouble. Other than that, I don't see why you'd need to. It's the same height as a play pen and they don't have gates. If you need in, step over. It's no taller than a baby gate.Breaks:I never came close to breaking mine. There is a snap lock hinge at the top and bottom between each panel. If you try to move just the top or just the bottom, I could see how it would snap. You have to move both hinges at the same time, by pushing in between them, on both sides. I've never had a problem moving it this way. I think they will only break if you move them the wrong way or get frustrated or aren't careful.It's heavier/lighter than expected:The weight is in the description.


