1358899200
5.0
review/summary: BEST.TOY.EVERreview/text: Let's get this out of the way first: My daughter isn't even using the walker portion of the toy, and I think it's the best toy ever.The positives of this toy are too numerous to mention. There are a ton of colors, shapes, textures, and sounds that are all perfectly set to entice a baby. This is absolutely my daughter's go-to toy. Whenever she is bored or distracted, putting her back on this toy always gets her attention.Normal volume is set at a perfect level (there is an extra loud level if necessary). The songs/noises may be a bit repetitive - I've learned most of them by heart - but she loves them. Heck, she even sounds like a mini-DJ at times when she picks the phone up over-and-over-and-over: "Thanks for call, thanks, thanks, thanks, thanks for calling, thanks for calling." Sometimes it's pretty funny. She also enjoys the sounds associated with the sun (a laugh), the cow (a moo), and the various keys on the keyboard.Interaction with the toy is off the charts. She pushes, pulls, climbs, hits, moves, flicks - everything. The square, circle, and triangle attachments are ingeniously made because not only can they be removed and reinserted into their designated slots, but inserting/removing rewards with a sound and the little tether to each piece has enough tension to catch a baby's attention. If she is across the room and sees me put the three pieces into their slots, more often than not she crawls over and takes them out. Wash, rinse, repeat.The level changes for the toy are also great. This is perfect for the youngster who is sitting, crawling, and figuring out how to stand (i.e. "Sit-to-Stand"). I love the fact that a child can practice standing by pushing themselves up one extra level off the floor while still remaining relatively low to the ground. When she's ready the bar will go up, the angle will change, and she'll be off to the races. It's a perfect progression in my opinion.The only negatives I can think of for this toy relate directly to overstimulation. Put simply, it can be a bit much. My aforementioned comments about baby DJs are accurate; the sound is overwhelming and never-ending. I don't think it helps teach too much, either, because there is just too much going on to decipher. Even when it hasn't been touched in some time there are beeps, songs, and sounds coming from it, begging for interaction. Overall, however, I can't complain because of how awesome the rest of it is.Absolutely wonderful toy.


