1359763200
4.0
review/summary: Pretty good but I prefer Huggies Little Snugglers, a little big, especially for a 7lb little girlreview/text: My little girl is 7 lb 4 oz and we have tried several brands of newborn diapers for her... many we got as shower gifts and we had planned on using environmentally friendly diapers so we bought a bunch of Earth's Best. Here's the round-up.... these Huggies Little Snugglers are the best for several reasons.-Huggies Little Snugglers: We love these for several reasons. First off, they are the smallest of all of the brands we tried so they actually fit her a little better. Like I said, she is 7lb 4 oz and so a lot fo the other diapers are a little too big even though they are newborn size and they dig into her legs. These are also good because they have a strip that changes color from yellow to blue when she's wet, not essential, but nice. They also have a cut out for the umbilical cord. They have a couple extra features like a little elastic pocket thing inside the back waste band to prevent blow-outs coming up the back, which seems to work pretty well. They are nice and soft too.-Pampers Swaddlers Newborn: These are our second favorite. They are a little bigger than the Huggies Little Snugglers, which is drawback for me, but they are soft so they don't dig into the legs too much. They also have the strip that changes color when she's wet.-Honest Newborn Diapers: These you buy online, it is a company that sends monthly diaper bundles. It was started by Jessica Alba and is a green company with recycled diapers and household products. I like these a lot, but again, they are just a little bit big. They have really cute patterns, are soft and work pretty well and they are also environmentally friendly, which is a bonus. They downside is that you have to order them on a monthly basis - $90 a month for about $280 diapers or something. They actually have a pretty good deal where you can get a starter kit with 10 diapers or so for free (I think you have to pay shipping) to try out the diapers and products. (Link: [...]) I think I may use these more when she gets bigger.-Earth's Best Newborn: Sadly, these are my least favorite. They aren't as soft as the others and they are pretty big and bulky. They are way too big for her now and when we used on, it dug into her legs and made red marks when we took it off. I bought a ton of these so I guess I'll use them when she's at the top end of the newborn size scale - like 9 lbs or so.


