1352073600
5.0
review/summary: Loving this so far!review/text: My 9-month old son is playing in this 'yard' as I type this, and it was a great investment for our needs! Here's a detailed review of our 8-panel, color play yard:PROS:The panels sort of lock into place, so once you arrange and position it, it's fixed, more or less, until a strong and coordinated adult wants to change the position.It's sturdy, though this would be dependent on how you have it arranged. We did a sort of pentagon/trapazoid thing with a big "footprint," and I don't worry about my son tipping it when he gets more into climbing or trying to pull himself up to stand. If we stand him up, he can hold onto it, and be supported just fine.The big "footprint" (which is also a con?), is nice, and gives plenty of space for him to play. We even put his jumperoo in there, and there's still plenty of space for him to sit and play. It's our main play area now!I bought one of these to keep our two dogs off of his toys and away from licking his face and hands while he's playing. It works great for that. If they really wanted to, they could get in there, but only by jumping over it. They don't, so it's great.It's colorful and fun - much better than the "boneyard" white ones (as DH put it)...(also a con).CONS:This thing is big. It takes up almost half of our living room area. That said, though, our living room isn't super spacious, and I wouldn't want to go with the 6-panel because that would feel too small to me.It's colorful and a bit of an eyesore, but hey... it's a baby's play space, right? Nobody comes over and doesn't know we have kids with or without it.OVERALL: Two thumbs up from me and my little boy! I say 'so far' in the title because I'm not entirely sure how it will stand the test of time as far as it's movability. I could see a 2-year old, for example, being able to sort of walk the thing around if he wanted to, sort of push it where he wanted to go. It isn't meant to be fixed to the floor, and we wouldn't want anything that is, so that doesn't detract from my rating.


