1355184000
5.0
review/summary: Battery life, amazing, son, loves it. End result? A happy mother.review/text: I love it, he loves it. What more is there?Currently we have little to no furniture other than beds in the room as my toddler gets into everything. Not having the funds I needed to completely babyproof the bedroom, I ridded myself of of anything dangerous. That aside, this little mighty turtle projects stars quite clearly upon my ceiling and walls from about 7 feet down.There isn't much for my son to do with it when it's on, thus he usually leaves it alone. There's an on and off switch on the bottom and the batteries are secured with a screw. Perfect!Three colours, green, blue and &#34;amber&#34; AKA orange. Orange is quite dim, but I actually use orange when my son is out for the night at grandmas and I'm alone.I use it as much as he does. Every evening after he's asleep and I go to bed [we share a room] I turn it on for myself to fall asleep to. I didn't know how much I enjoyed a simple night light until now.Perfect for adults, fantastic for children. All in all a very solid product for a great price. Stick to the Twilight Constellation turtle, nothing fancier.5/5 stars from this happy customer.Oh, and I've tried a few projection machines for my son so far. A Graco Slumber Machine [more of a nightlight than projection, with a lot of mediocre music... but it got us through the first year before it quit.] and a Winnie The Pooh projection machine. Winnie the Pooh is wearing a sleep gown and looks babyish on the one I had received from a Thrift Store. I didn't like either. Winnie the Pooh had too many things for my son to push and keep himself up with to play with. And as I said, the sleep machine quit. Winnie the Pooh didn't take batteries, but the sleep machine did... and they didn't ever work.Long story short, I'm satisfied with this turtle and I sincerely regret not shelling out the $15 for it two and a half years ago. It would have been a fantastic investment when my son was a baby.


