1358553600
5.0
review/summary: Great showerhead and the filtered water is a big help.review/text: I have usedCulligan WSH-C125 Wall-Mount 10,000 Gallon Capacity Filtered Showerhead, Chrome Finishfor about four months now and have noticed a differenc in my showers. First, the installation was quite easy-- a length of silicone plumber's tape is included, but I used my own (if you're a homeowner and don't have this laying around, shame on you!) to prepare the shower arm's threaded end to receive the showerhead. Filter installation is quite simple.The entire body of the showerhead is chrome-coated plastic or rubber, except for the nut/attachment that screws onto the shower arm. I'm wary of plastic showerheads but the plastic on this one is quite well-constructed and the rubber spray nozzles are well designed.The instructions supplied with the showerhead are very helpufl and even include directions on removing the flow restrictor in case you have poor water pressure (and I do). This modification takes less than a minute and doesn't affect the appearance or function of the showerhead--aside from improving it! Before I've used a special showerhead meant for low-pressure installations and was afraid this one couldn't boost the pressure to a comfortable stream but it does the trick. Even after passing through the filter, the water pressure provides a stream through all nozzles and even the massage feature works.The only downside is the plastic packaging is rather difficult to open, so open carefully, but aside from that minor inconvenience, there are no downsides in the design/performance.On the virtue of the filtered water for a shower--I don't have any off odors or oddities in my local water supply aside from extra calcium deposits and flouride. My winter eczema/ dry skin isn't as bad as previous years--which I can't evaluate scientifically as the result of this showerhead alone. I can attest that the glass shower doors don't need to be cleaned as frequently--its a rather amazing change as they remain clear without a squeegee to remove water spots. Even if it's only benefit is reducing scrubbing scale from shower doors, it's quite a selling point.Highly reccomended.


