1351814400
4.0
review/summary: Clear instructions for installation and usereview/text: I wanted a way for my kids to be able to get into the house without a key. I also liked the idea of being able to enjoy my outdoor exercises without having to carry a key with me. After reading about several keypad deadbolts, I settled on this one. The all-metal piece for the side that is on the inside of the door, the shapely design, as well as the good reviews, are what helped me make the decision. I also like that it uses one long-lasting 9V battery, instead of several AA batteries like some of the competitors' options.I am a woman with a fair amount of basic handy skills. I installed this keypad myself in about 30 minutes, which included removing the previous lock and bolt that had been installed by our homebuilder. The directions and diagrams were clear and easy to follow. I had no problems with any of the installation steps. I honestly thought it was going to be more complicated than it turned out to be.The code instructions were also easy to follow. The prompts are not rushed, I have plenty of time to check the directions to find the next step I need to complete and then enter it. My kids understood the directions I gave for how to use this right away.The directions say the lights give a signal when the battery is running low. I'll be watching for that, thankful that it won't just die without warning. To change the battery, you must remove the inside door latch panel by removing 2 screws - fairly easy to do, and only takes a few minutes.One drawback - I had not counted on the fact that the outside thumbturn (the portion which you turn after entering your code, as well as insert your key into if you must use a key) sticks out from the door about 1" farther than my previous lock. This puts it where it bumps right into the center of the screen door handle. In order to be able to close and latch both doors, we have to rotate the outside thumbturn to be in about the 2 o'clock/8 o'clock position, rather than perpendicular, so that it skims over the screen door handle. This is not a big deal, because once the door is locked the outside thumbturn spins freely, but certainly worth noting.Also, the inside thumbturn does not sit perpendicular when locked/horizontal when unlocked. All my other locks sit this way, so that is what I look for when I'm glancing around to check to be sure doors are locked before bed or before leaving. Rather, the inside thumbturn sits at a 45 angle to the right or to the left, depending on if it is locked or unlocked. I'll get used to it, it's just different.The Satin Nickel finish nicely matched the same finish on my existing door handle, which is about 4 years old. I nicked a small area with the screwdriver while installing, but the spot buffed out easily, looking smooth and nice again.


