1345507200
4.0
review/summary: good product, good detail instructions with "courteous" supportreview/text: I bought this unit a couple of weeks ago when Amazon had it on-sale. Installation was a breeze as I already had a standard deadbolt in place. I read the instructions and proceeded with the installation. I removed the old dead bolt and mounted the new unit. The new Deadbolt was quite a bit bulkier compared to the one I had. The bottom of the deadbolt barely cleared the existing door handle. In fact, I had to loosen the screw of the door handle so I could adjust the both units. I now have zero clearance between the deadbolt and the door handle. This is something for you to think about if your existing deadbolt and door handle is close to one another. Both my kids are now in middle school, so they leave later in the morning, and comes home before me. This unit will allow them to lock and unlock without keys. As such, I don't have to worry about them losing the keys...Alert!!!So, I finished mounting the deadbolt and proceeded to install the batteries. I change the default programming code and add new code for the wife and kids. Somewhere during the process of doing so, the deadbolt started getting out of snyc. I had to enter the code twice, before the deadbolt would engage. So I factory reset the unit, and used the default codes. I still had to enter the code twice before the deadbolt would engage. WTF? So, I called support, and was greeted by a support tech with no waiting. I explained my issue, and we went thru everything, but could not figure out why I had to enter the code twice to engage the unit. She thinks the unit is out of snyc and asked if I'd like to RMA the product back to them. I have Amazon prime, so it was most probably quicker for me to just order another unit and send this unit back, so I declined.Solution to the problem...Having an engineering background, I questioned (myself) if the unit was really out of sync. The result of having to enter the code twice every time was just too consistent to say it was out of sync. In the process of troubleshooting it, I found out that if you press the schlage button to lock the unit, and then you unlock it before the knob disengages, it will cause this issue.Advise to avoid this problem...Avoid engaging or disengaging the deadbolt until you are ready to test the unit with the door close. I was testing the deadbolt with the keys and the programming with the door open...locking and unlocking with the keypad and also manually with the key. By having the door close, you will be more systematic in engaging and disengaging the deadbolt. If you accidently lock yourself out, you can manually use the provided keys.I hope this helps you avoid the issues I had...


