1346544000
5.0
review/summary: So far so good... and some installation advice.review/text: The disposal arrived quickly. The packaging was all biodegradable cardboard, thankfully no wasteful foam inserts. Spare parts were tucked neatly inside the chamber of the unit, sort of like giblets. Our dishwasher has its own drain, so we did not remove the knockout. Waste King's knockout is flush on the inside, a good design, as food will not collect there (as was the case with our old Kenmore.)We followed the manufacturer's advice and practiced assembling the EZ collar pieces before actual installation - it really did help to see how it all went together before working in the dark under the sink.The EZ collar system is wonderful, and very slick: highly recommended! Remember when twisting the disposal into position after hanging it to grab the metal ears and use those to twist, otherwise the whole thing will come off and you'll have to hang it again (only made that mistake once!)Note that the drain elbow provided has a sharp 45-degree turn at the top, which is necessary to clear the Waste King's housing. Don't substitute an elbow without this acute angle.Our installation was onto a Corian sink, so we used plumber's putty for the collar. After hanging the disposal the weight of the unit will gradually compress the putty some more, so periodically check the screw ring on the flange for tightness. Hand tightening is all you need, but it will certainly need adjustment in the first couple weeks as the putty compresses.We also discovered that tin snips are fantastic for trimming PVC pipe: make eyelash cuts up to the trim line, then cut the fringe off working right to left and counterclockwise. It makes a beautiful, clean edge.So far the disposal seems excellent, and is VERY quiet. We really like the removable rubber splash guard. Note that the neck of this model is slightly smaller than the Kenmore, so our generic drain guard did not fit. We've ordered theWaste King 4018 Drain Guard and Food Scraper for EZ Mount Sink


