1347235200
5.0
review/summary: another great ISE productreview/text: Amazingly quiet!!!This Evolution Compact 3/4 hp ISE unit replaced an ISE model 333 1/2 hp unit purchased at Price Club 17 years ago. The latter unit stood up to raising a family of six and finally quit being reliable (bearings in motor going out).The new "compact" one is rated higher in power, is about the same size, and (possibly because it is attached to a cast-iron sink embedded in a tiled sink top.....) it is super quiet by comparison to its predecessor. If the radio is playing in the background and the water is turned off at the sink, you may not hear that the unit is still running.The new design of the rubber baffle in the intake throat eliminates outward splash when grinding food waste. It also absorbs a lot of the sound of food being ground up in the grinding chamber. It also is not part of the mounting gasket that seals the disposal to the drain flange. Therefore, unlike the old design, if the rubber baffle ever tears you don't have to take apart the disposal-flange junction to replace it. You simply pull the torn baffle out from the top and put in the new one. (That easy removal feature also makes it nice for viewing the inside of the grinding chamber if you want to retrieve an object....just lift out the baffle and go for it)The only two downsides for this unit:1. The new rubber throat-baffle slows the passage of water from the sink into the unit and down the drain....so if you are in a hurry it takes a few seconds longer to empty the sink. (Not really a negative for most people)2. The new stopper that plugs the drain flange, allowing the sink to be filled with water, is a solid plug. The one it replaced (from the 17 year old unit) had two positions: one that allowed filling the sink, and one that allowed water to drain but partially blocked the disposal's throat from an inadvertent dropping of objects into the dosposal. In reality the new baffle helps to accomplish that function....so a solid stopper is not all that bad.Fortunately for me the new ISE still uses the original stainless steel drain flange design, so I didn't have to remove and replace that. The removal and installation was done in 15 minutes.....and I can still use the old adjustable stopper, or I can use the new solid one.Unless this company has started to use cheaper materials or shoddy assembly processes I expect this new unit to outlast me.


