1347926400
5.0
review/summary: Love it!!!review/text: Wow. Finally, no more fumbling with keys. Very cool interface and a breeze to install. Instructions are very clear. I have installed 2 deadbolt units and one handle lock so I am becoming quite the expert. Here are my favorite features;1. The lock it like a tank. No key bumping or picking these babies. You are definitely upgrading your lock when you install this.2. Press the top button which is big and easy to find by touching it in the dark and BAM the key pad lights up in a very pleasing blue color ready for you to punch in yur 4 digit code.3. When you enter you code the lock clicks so your can turn it open. I like this feature as there is less moving parts and less room for failure. Also, motors take much more "juice / battery power to move. So between issues with more point of failure and the battery needing to be replaced more often I love Schlage's concept. Punch in code and turn to open.4. Great interface. It is very intuitive. My 75 year old mom and my friend's 6 year old son did it the first try with any coaching! You approach the lock and naturally press the keypad. When you touch your first number of your combination the keys light up blue. When you finish your four digit combo you hear a click and the numbers turn from blue to blinking green. If you get the code wrong it blinks red and you try again.5. If you want to pay another couple of hundred bucks plus a monthly monitoring fee (you have to in order to use the lock) then you can buy their on-line solution called Schlage LiNK. This is really cool as it hooks the lock up to your wireless home network so you can monitor the status of the locks condition Lock/Unlcoked. As well as use a smart app for your phone to unlock the door. However, keep in mind that YOU CAN NOT LOCK THE DOOR. Remember there is no motor. It is click and release of lock. Someone needs to manually turn the lock on the inside to make sure it is in the locked condition. Its very cool if you don't want to give out your code and someone like you cleaning people show up. They simply call you and you use your phone (even if you are in China) to let them in. "Hold on while I unlock the door for you. When it blinks green let yourself in" Its also cool as Schlage has other products that use LiNk once you are up and running like a camera and lighting. If you have the Schlage camera you can watch them go into the house and even turn a light on for them! But that whole setup will run you over $500. But its a very very cool $500 :) If you love this kind of automation then put the Shclage link on the entrance of your garage and buy the Craftman Assurelink for your Garage doors at [....]. Trust me. This app on your smartphone can't be beat. Its not just open close its unbelievable but that's a different review.Hope this is helpful. Enjoy!!!


