1343952000
1.0
review/summary: BEWARE! Warranty is a SCAM.review/text: I bought this product last year from Amazon for a home theater system based on the largely favorable reviews. Two weeks ago lightning hit a tree near the house, traveled down the trunk and entered the house wiring. We had a JBL Home Theater System (7 speakers + subwoofer), a Panasonic Blu-ray player, and a Pioneer receiver, all new, plugged into our Belkin surge protector. It was grounded and operating properly according to its lights. Nevertheless, all components were damaged beyond use.All of this prompted me to do some research. The real news: none of Belkin's products, or other similar surge protectors, can protect electronic equipment during a catastrophic surge, such as that caused by a close lightning strike. They just aren't designed to do that. For them to have a chance to do their job, you need a whole house surge protector wired into your exterior electrical service (where the meter is and the power enters your house from the grid). Such a protector, properly connected by an electrician, will dissipate 85-90% of the initial surge from a lightning strike, and allow a Belkin-type protector, if good enough, to do its intended job. Belkin doesn't tell you that, but leads you to believe that it doesn't matter, because they give you a "$200,000 Connected Equipment Warranty" for this model. So you're still okay after a lightning strike that fries your expensive equipment, right? Wrong!If you read the fine print on the warranty claim form, you are screwed from the minute you depend on Belkin for protection. First, they require you to mail them your surge protector, at your expense. Once it is out of your hands, and in theirs, you have no control over what they may claim about whether it did its job or was properly installed. They demand to know if you have renter's or homeowners insurance, and if so, what your deductible is (meaning, they'll only pay the deductible at most); whether you've filed a claim and if so, what the claim number is and who the insurance agent is with contact information; if you haven't filed a claim, the reason for your failure to do (meaning, if you don't care enough about your stuff to file an insurance claim, you're sure not going to see a penny from us). And now, the kicker: they reserve the right to have you mail them all of the equipment you are claiming is damaged--at YOUR expense and with ABSOLUTELY NO GUARANTEE that either you'll get it back or that they'll give you one red cent even after they receive your damaged equipment. And if they do deny your claim after all of this, your only resort is to sue them, and the amount of damages claimed may exceed the limits for small claims court in your state (meaning you'll have to hire a lawyer--have you priced one lately?) This is absolutely nothing but a SCAM based on false advertising, designed to give the consumer a false sense of security. Belkin might as well be located in remote Siberia and have no financial assets. I seriously doubt that the company has EVER paid a claim under their so-called warranty. Do yourself a favor. First, get yourself a whole-house surge protector, and then, protect all of your electronic equipment (including appliances) with appropriately scaled surge protectors from Monoprice. Their quality is well-known, their prices the lowest for the amount of protection you receive, their advertising largely word-of-mouth, and they make no ridiculous claims about what their products can't possibly do in order to lure you to waste your money.


