1353024000
4.0
review/summary: Bad display, bad buttons, good detection?review/text: **UPDATE** Increasing to 4 stars from 2. This thing really works!Since the reading always went down to 0 when I pressed the "stop making noise" button, shut the furnace off, and opened my bedroom door, I wasn't sure whether it was detecting a real, low-level issue, or just breaking. So to test that, I bought a second CO615 from my local Target (at about twice the price) to see if it would go off too. And it does.So the alerts were legitimate, and this alarm kept me from harm, which is the whole point!Deducting one star for the display being garbled, the buttons being hard to use, and for it just seeming so broken that I didn't believe it and first & ended up spending 3x the money to figure it out, but the most important thing for this alarm to do is detect dangerous levels of CO, and it did it!******I'm not sure what to think about this. Consumer Reports gave it a good rating, esp. for low levels of CO. But the display on mine is now so garbled so that I can't read the numbers, and the buttons are faulty, so I can't get a peak level reading. I only bought it 4 months ago.I've been using my furnace for about a month with no alarms sounding, but now it consistently goes off 2 hours after I turn my furnace on (aka 2 hours into me being asleep, bummer). Then the level drops to 0 the moment I open my bedroom door, which seems fishy.I wanted to check what the peak level was following a day at work with the furnace off. First day I tried it, the level was 35 ppm, higher than I had even seen it at night (~17 ppm). Second day I tried to check, I had to mash the peak level button for such a long time that it ended up clearing the peak level, but I think it read 45 for a split second before it cleared. That was 2 days ago, and since then I haven't been able to get a reading, peak or otherwise, at all.I guess I'll do some more tests over the weekend...but I hate to waste emergency services by calling 911 if it turns out the unit is just defective.In the meantime, I'm only running the furnace for an hour at a time. I'll have to hit up my building manager to get a proper reading from it because it's cold in here!


