1350086400
4.0
review/summary: Good replacement for InSinkErator 333review/text: Summary: I was really wanting to buy InSinkErator's top-of-the-line model, but ended up getting this one when it was featured as an Amazon Gold Box deal. I had a lot of concerns prior to purchasing and installing the Waste King L-8000, but the only one I think most people should worry about is the height of the unit.Pros:- super-easy install (if you have an old 3-bolt mount, that's also easy to remove)- if you already have PVC pipe under your sink, this will probably only take 30 minutes to an hour- significantly quieter than my old InSinkErator 333- lifetime warrantyCons:- rubber gasket is only for stainless steel sinks, so you'll need to have plumber's putty on hand if you have any other type of sink- very tall, at about 18.5"--probably taller than your old garbage disposal- plastic flange might not last- chrome finish wrapped around top of flange looks cheap & tacky, especially with "Waste King" and a crown picture engraved in it right-side-up and upside-downMy house came with a 1/2hp InSinkErator 333, which worked just fine until one day it started clogging and sounded like it was jammed. I tried unjamming it with the wrench that it came with, but that didn't help, so I pulled it out and about vomited from the smell. After dumping its contents into a bucket, I found a scraped up quarter inside. I triumphantly reinstalled it, thinking it would work now, but it still seemed to be permanently jammed. And so it sat...and sat...and sat...while I waited for a good deal on a replacement garbage disposal. I passed up a couple deals, including an Amazon lightning deal. Then one morning I noticed that the Waste King L-8000 was Amazon's Gold Box deal of the day.I have to be honest, I was really turned off by various Amazon reviews that said the mounting hardware seemed cheap and prone to breakage. And to me, the EZ-mount hardware just didn't seem as sturdy as my InSinkErator's 3-screw mount. I was also partial to InSinkErator because they still manufacture their products in the USA and Consumer Reports rated the ISE Evolution Excel "Excellent" at discharge fineness and "Very Good" at shredding stringy vegetable fibers, and they reported that it was also one of the quietest garbage disposals on the market. But CR also rated the L-8000 as "Excellent" at discharge fineness and "Excellent" at shredding vegetable fibers. Unfortunately, they said it was only "Good" in terms of noise.After agonizing over just how important each feature was, I decided to click the button. The worst scenario I could imagine was that it would be a pain to replace my 3-screw mount with the EZ-mount, the new garbage disposal would be noisy, it would break, and Waste King would have horrible customer service and not honor their supposed lifetime warranty. But then I wouldn't be any worse off than I was with the broken ISE 333 except for being about 90 bucks poorer. I decided to go ahead and buy the Waste King.And then it hit me. NNNNNNNNOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!! I had forgotten to compare the Waste King's size with other comparable units. A couple reviewers had commented on the L-8000's gargantuan size, and after looking up the dimensions of the Waste King and the Evolution Excel, it turned out that the Waste King was almost 5 inches taller! When it seems like you barely have enough storage under the sink, as it is, the prospect of losing even more space is more than a little concerning. I almost canceled the order, but went back to comparing warranties...Lifetime for Waste King, vs. 7 years for ISE's more expensive, higher-end model. I gladly would have paid up to 2x or 3x as much for a good-old Made in the USA machine, but the many Amazon reviewers reporting rust problems and leaks on various ISE models really concerned me. And the fact that it only had a "Very Good" rating vs. "Excellent" on chewing up veggies disappointed me a little, but I really wasn't sure if the difference was important enough for me to care about. If the ISE had a lifetime warranty, I definitely would have gone with it. So I stuck with the Waste King.It arrived the next day, thanks to Amazon Prime's $3.99 next-day shipping. I figured this was a weekend project, and I didn't want to have to wait until the following weekend. Later that night when I got home, I tore the old garbage disposal out. Although I've been gradually honing my handyman skills over the past several years, it seems like a lot of projects take me longer than they probably should. Fortunately, the 3-bolt mount was a lot easier to remove than I had expected--and it helped that the Waste King's instruction manual included alternate instructions for installing models with the 3-bolt mounting option. Of course, the EZ-mount seemed like it would be a breeze to install, until I got halfway through reading the instructions to discover that the included rubber gasket is only to be used with stainless steel sinks. Mine was an old Harvest Gold cast iron sink, so I had to buy plumber's putty if I wanted to finish the job...and it was now after 10:30 at night. Pretty much the only stores around here that are open that late are the 24-hour Wal-Marts. But it seems like every time I've gone to Wal-Mart in the middle of the night for miscellaneous parts to finish a home repair job, I've always left disappointed and have had to improvise with something I already had at home...like the time I fashioned a pipe coupler out of hose clamps and duct tape to install a new sump pump and save my basement from flooding. (That worked so well that I forgot about it, until my wife heard a really strange splashing noise in the basement a month later. She called me and I rushed home to hear the sump pump running every 30 seconds, followed by a loud SPLASH!!. I went down to the basement and opened the closet door just in time to see a geyser erupt, shooting almost to the ceiling. Oh, and my breaker box is located directly above the sump pump. That was scary.) Anyway, getting back to the plumber's putty: the "super" Wal-Mart listed it as "limited stock" but the smaller Wal-Mart near my house had a ton of it in stock for $1.87. I was pleasantly surprised.Once I got back home, the install was a breeze. I honestly don't understand what so many people found confusing about the EZ-mount hardware. And all the pipes went back together great. Since I had already previously replaced the rotting copper pipe under that sink with PVC, the entire install--including the shopping trip to buy plumber's putty--took less than 45 minutes.Then, finally, the moment of truth. I had already tested the EZ-mount flange for leaks before mounting the garbage disposal, but now there were a lot more potential points where it could leak: the garbage disposal mount, the discharge pipe running off the side of the disposal, or either side of the trap. I put some paper towels underneath everything so I'd be able to tell if even one drop of water dripped, but after thorough testing, it seemed all the fittings were sound. The noise also turns out not to be much of an issue, because the Waste King L-8000 is probably less than half as loud as my old ISE 333. I did kind of prefer the wider baffle on the old ISE, but another reviewer said this one is more likely to prevent objects from falling in accidentally, and I'd have to agree. The only real disappointment is that it did end up being about 3"-4" taller than my old garbage disposal, but I guess I'll just have to deal with that.


