1350432000
5.0
review/summary: Better than expectedreview/text: This summer we experienced a flea problem like we hadn't seen for 15-years. The infestation occurred quickly. We noticed our two cats began to scratch a lot, rather than just the occasional cleaning and primping. The change became noticeable within about one week. There was a combination of reasons for the flea infestation - 1) The local climate set records this summer and was favorable to fleas; 2) The climate encouraged our cats to spend more time outside collecting new fleas; 3) We ceased the regime of applying flea & tick control on the back of the cat's neck because they we showing adverse reactions every time we'd apply it.Fifteen years ago we experienced a flea infestation, but didn't realize it until it was bad. This time, we recognized the signs quickly and went right to work. We wanted to avoid generalized pesticides around our house and focus on specific actions that would lead to results. It's kind of like the difference between carpet bombing a war zone or using smart bombs to take specific war-related installations. We want the latter strategy to minimize the exposure of pesticides/poisons.Specifics of the trap:Part of the strategy was to test out this flea trap. It was not expensive, nor did it have pesticide complications, so it was worth a try. After one week I saw measurable results so I went to the store and purchased two more. It's been 5-6 weeks that I've been using these. I've had a trap in each of the three rooms in my finished basement (where the cats generally reside) and have collected about 20-fleas in each trap (plus a few other miscellaneous insects). The sticky pads inside the plastic housing capture anything that gets on them. All of the fleas that I have captured have been immature adults (this is the stage where they are little black, hopping bugs, but are not ready to reproduce, so they don't bite). I have eliminated the mature fleas using other tactics in the war against the flea army (read on if you care to hear about that). The bottom line on the trap is that it works, somewhat to my surprise.The war on fleas:There is a great deal of information about fleas on the web. I'll try to keep my comments concise and relevant. Fleas have a life cycle. The female lays eggs, the eggs hatch into larva (little worms), the larva create cocoons and ultimately emerge as adult fleas, ready to start the cycle all over again. In the war on fleas, it's important to break the cycle. What make this difficult is that each stage of the cycle can significantly vary in duration. It would be a lot easier to stop the cycle if the timing of each stage were consistent. Anyway, the war on fleas can't be won by a single nuclear-pesticide event, because that will only eliminate the fleas in the adult stage of the life cycle. Even if you timed a second pesticide-bomb to take-out the next generation of hatched eggs, there would still be a lingering problem because not all the eggs hatch at the same time.Professional exterminators:These folks typically know what they're doing. Most use pesticides that minimize adverse effects. They also apply concoctions that last a while, so as to kill multiple generations in the flea cycle.Do it yourself:You can purchase and apply the same/similar pesticides yourself, if you're comfortable doing it. I have past experience doing this, but now I try to avoid pesticides as much as possible. If I needed something that will really take out a flea population, I'd buy the powder from Flea-Busters. It's a 66% boric acid compound and is very effective. As with any pesticide, do your research before taking action.My current actions in the war on fleas:My cats were having adverse reactions to the flea & tick ointments that are applied to the back of the neck, so I stopped using them. This allowed the flea population to gain a foothold in my house. It was suggested to me that I try Advantage II brand instead of the Frontline, or Costco brands (those are the ones that left the cats ill). I was told the Advantage II formula has a lower incidence of adverse reactions because it does not have a tick-control compound. I tried the Advantage II product and the cats do fine with it. Using a product like this really helps to control the flea population because it has an insecticide as well as a growth inhibitor.The flea trap has captured an abundance of immature adult fleas. It's non-toxic, cheap, and is one more weapon in the war against fleas.To capture and eliminate fleas that are mature and ready to reproduce, I have a found a flea comb and glass of soapy water to be very effective. It's easy to see the difference between an immature adult and a flea that's ready to reproduce. The latter appears to be a little bigger and has a lighter-colored underside. The only way I've found to capture these is by combing the cats. For whatever reason, I've never captured any of these fleas in a trap. Anyway, regular combing can have good results. Be ready with a paper towel and a glass of soapy water. After a stroke through the hair, if you spot a flea, dip the comb in the water before the flea becomes reoriented and hops off the comb. Clean the comb regularly with the paper towel.The vacuum cleaner is another effective tool in the war on fleas. Vacuuming helps to accelerate the fleas' life cycle, getting them to a stage where they can be killed. It also cleans /removes eggs that are in the carpet so they don't become a problem in the first place. I've been told that vacuuming once or twice a day is most effective and to change the bag often so the little guys that have been vacuumed up don't find their way back out. I leave my vacuum cleaner right next to one of these flea traps. The trap has accumulated about 20-fleas over the last month. I don't know if they're coming from the vacuum, or if they're attracted to it from other parts of the room. Either way, I feel good about the trap's performance.


