1356307200
5.0
review/summary: Great for forgetful people like me!review/text: So, I have an awful habit of forgetting (or losing) my keys every-so-often. I live an hour away from work, so forgetting my keys at work with a dog inside desperate to go to the bathroom presented a problem. To combat this we used to keep a spare set in a lock-box on the back fence. It worked great, we always had a spare set and it was easy to let someone in while we are not home. When we bought our current two flat we needed to replace the locks anyway. We started with the Camelot version on our garage as a test. It is a detached garage so we would always need our key to get the lawnmower, or go to the outdoor freezer we keep in the garage. I love the ease, and especially the fact that I have it set to auto-relock in 5 seconds. (So, in addition to losing my keys, I've also been known to forget to lock doors.)When it was time to replace the front door lock, we also opted to go with the keypad entry (Plymouth design). We have a door buzzer system and we are able to use this in conjunction. (We can buzz guests in if we are inside, or we can use the keypad for our own entry.)It is easy to program the keypad, and it was easy to install. I found the instruction manual very easy to follow. Just keep your manual somewhere safe as it contains the &#34;program&#34; code that you will need each time you want to program or de-program a code.We will eventually use this to make a temporary &#34;fed-ex/UPS&#34; code on days we expect to get packages, and then delete it as soon as we get home. (Note: This is to the front door/foyer/entry way, NOT our unit, so they only get access to a hallway) This way we can have packages safely left while we are away.I suppose the only complaint that I do have, is that I feel I can only have this OR a deadbolt. So we can't have a deadbolt on our garage...unless we want to be burdened with a key to the deadbolt which defeats the purpose. We ended up just putting in deadbolts to &#34;match&#34; just to fill the hole for the deadbolt, but we never use them. I'd like them to make a lock, or a lock set that makes use of the deadbolt and the normal lock. (Exception: we would not be able to use a deadbolt on our front door due to the buzzer system, but we could on the garage, and our individual apartment door).I'm very satisfied, I love not needing to get my keys out when I get home! I secretly want these locks on every door we have...front and back to our apartment, the main front and back doors, everything! They are a bit more pricey so I'm not sure if my husband will agree...


