1360454400
4.0
review/summary: Wroks well, install a little tricky if you aren't paying attentionreview/text: Bought this to replace one of those famous badgers. I'm done with badgers. I had a badger 5 that actually lasted 5 years. So being smart, I got the badger 10 from lowes, it had a 2 year warranty and didn't cost that much more. It barely lasted 2 years. We use our disposer every single day and that's part of it, but still the badgers don't hold up IMO.So I went with this, open box, damaged box. Everything was there but the warranty card. I got hung up on gasket thing, you NEED to pay attention to how the cushion gasket is installed as it comes from the factory or you will be off to You Tube searching for help. The way the gasket would logically fit in my mind is not how it fits at all. And when you are done mounting unit, you can move the whole unit side to side I guess that's ok, nothing leaks. The pipes help hold it steady anyway. LOL, I was so tired last night, I didn't see the INCLUDED full page diagram that shows EXACTLY how the cushion gasket goes. Look at it and follow it, it's clear if you do that. The video is nice too though.It was actually the first plumbing thing I've done in awhile that didn't leak the first time. It works well, I actually converted it to a direct power unit because I was not willing to install an electric box and outlet under my sink. It's not that hard, if you look at direct wire units, this one is one of those where they added a cord. YMMV, I am NOT recommending you do this. DO NOT do this. I'm sure I violated the warranty and someone will do this wrong and burn their house down and say they read it in a review. So DON'T do it!I also cut the rubber waste gate thing that goes in the top to make the hole a little bigger for better water flow. It means stuff can fall in more and it also makes the unit louder. It's closer to my old POS badger's set up now, YMMV on cutting this opening bigger. If you cut it bigger and a spoon falls in and ruins your unit don't blame me!Anyway, it works great now, if I ever have to buy another I'll get a direct wire unit. I took a gamble getting it cheap that it would last and not need the warranty. The warranty card being gone is part of the used deal I guess. However, it clearly had never been used, but must have been a return where the person changed their mind. YMMV, but the used units on amazon seem to offer good value. It's got to last longer then the awful badgers.


