1356048000
5.0
review/summary: A VERY well-rounded light!review/text: Here are some of my thoughts on the 3D Mag LED:1. At 131 lumens, it's about as bright as the old-school 6D incandescent Maglite (which was 136 lumens). This is certainly not the brightest light out there. In fact, at first glance, it seems downright weak compared to all of the 500-1000 lumen XM-L lights out there. But the reality is that, SO much of the time, you just don't need THAT much light. For night hiking, too much light can sometimes take away from the experience. Out on the trail, 131 lumens is actually quite a good balance between being bright enough to see, yet not obnoxiously bright. Yes, more lumens (with a lower setting around 131 lumens) would be nice. Maybe someday.2. Light output and quality are WORLDS better than the older Mag LED lights. I actually had the 3D Mag LED brop-in from back in the early days of LED Mags. And although it seemed like something special back in 2005, it was actually quite pathetic. Output was little better than the standard incandescent bulb. And the hue was quite blue. Needless to say, Mag did their homework here. I've not owned any of the Rebel lights. But the new Cree XP-E lights are WORLDS better than the first gen lights in terms of both output and tint.3. As others have said, throw is actually quite good. It's actually better than some of the FAR brighter XM-L lights that I have. Then again, you kind of expect that from a smaller LED.4. Lots of people say that a 3D light is just WAYYYY too big, especially compared to all those Chinese 'pocket rockets'. However, I find that the size can feel good at time. Sometimes, there's just something to be said about holding a substantial feeling light in my hand rather than some small light that feels like I'm going to throw it out of my hand. At the same time, I don't find it overly heavy. And, although this might sound a little cliche when it comes to talking about Mags, the light can certainly double as a weapon if need be.5. I like the fact that it runs on D batteries. This means that it has HUGE amounts of runtime. I'm not sure about Mag's 79 hour figure. But given my tailcap measurement of about .5-.55 amps, I figure I can probably get 12-15 hours of good, bright runtime from three 8000mAH Tenergy Centura NiMH D batteries. This makes the 3D Mag LED the PERFECT light to have on camping trips and in other situations where it may not be so convenient to recharge the batteries (or at least recharge them fully).6. I've ALWAYS liked the styling of Mags. I just prefer the nice, clean lines and curves of a Mag to the overly aggressive, 'tacticool' looks of SO many lights today. Things like crenallated bezels just seem silly to me. Keep it simple and neat!


