1359417600
3.0
review/summary: EZ-Mount----Be Sure before you buyreview/text: I wound up buying this unit only to exchange it for the Waste King 9980.Waste King makes the L-8000 ( this unit) with the EZ-Mount and the 9980 with the 3-Bolt mount. The machines themselves are identical except for the mounting system they use. Both are excellent as the ratings clearly reflect. But be sure you really want the EZ-Mount before you buy.The EZ-Mount is a little faster to install but the diameter of the hole in the sink is SMALLER than what you are probably used to. What this means is when something inevitably falls into the disposal you are not going to fish it out with your hand as you have in the past, unless of course you have extremely small hands.Needle nosed pliers will probably be your only option.One advantage of the EZ-Mount is you can replace the splash guard without taking anything apart. But it is not a standard size so you will not get it or a replacement stopper at your local Home Improvement Center. It is not expensive but you will need to order it from Waste King. But as I said the opening is noticeably smaller and may prove annoying as the years go by.The 3-Bolt System is the same diameter as what you probably already have and in many cases you can mount the new 9980 on the old disposals mount ( with an adapter kit sold on Amazon).But be aware if you do have to replace the 3-Bolt Mount it is not appreciably harder to install than the EZ-Mount- it just takes a little longer.There are plenty of Youtube videos to walk you through it if you get stuck.The point of this review is to make the only complaint many have had with the L-8000 easy to find instead of being buried and easy to miss ( that was what happened to me when I had water leaking from the old disposal and needed something fast).If the fact it is harder to fish things out of the L-8000 doesn't bother you then you should be fine. But if you are assuming this units hole in the sink is as big as what you probably already have you may be disappointed.Either way both machines are very well made and well worth the money. My three star rating has nothing to do with the machines themselves or their quality. It is simply for me and probably others the EZ-Mount hole is too small to fish things out which will inevitably fall in as the years go by.For me it was worth the additional 15 minutes of install time for the 3-Bolt Mount to get a more conventional sized sink opening.Note: Waste Kings clunk when you first start them and it is relatively loud. Be aware it is normal. These Disposals have wings that fly out when you turn them on and that is what you hear. It is a little disconcerting when you first try it out but after awhile you get used to it.


