1351641600
5.0
review/summary: Excellent Mylar Blankets with Many Usesreview/text: On giving a 10-pack to the neighbor (I ordered 3), we brainstormed and came up with all sorts of uses for putting these blankets to, such as: keeping 1-2 in the car in case one is stranded and has to shelter down in the cold. Covering plants loosely this winter (securing base with duct tape). Cutting them up for smaller projects and securing them together into baggies using the Foodsaver (to hermetically seal collectibles, prescription drugs, food, etc., by sealing three sides, inserting object, and vacuum sealing the top). Attaching two or more together with duct tape to create larger blankets, sleeping bags, construct tents. Use if ever a window gets broken in the house or car (to cover it, securing it with heavy-duty-rated 3M duct tape).You could probably even give one to kids to create school projects where they cut a blanket into shapes to create art work.I may use a blanket as insulation this winter by cutting it up to fit the sides and back of my lovebirds' cage, for added warmth, mounting with duct tape. A 10-pack or two of these could be duct taped together to create a giant car, boat, or pool cover. Of course, it's nice to know if a storm knocks out the power and/or gas, I can place one between my bed sheet and blanket for added warmth. In an emergency, its primary intent, one could distribute to family and wrap it around oneself and loved ones, or wrap an injured person in it. One could even use heavy duty duct tape to create an internal window covering during winter in colder rooms, to prevent heat from bleeding through a single-pane window. Fortunately, I have multi pane glass, but single pane glass is an energy killer when temperatures drop below zero.I went and ordered 3 more 10-packs and the price had gone up from $7.25 to $8.62 in just two weeks, but with free super-saver shipping it still seems worth it (as each blanket in a 10-pack is still under a dollar). I also purchased two mylar sleeping bags for my emergency earthquake preparedness kit, but will store a 10-pack of these with heavy-duty grade 3M duct tape and scissors as well. (I purchased a medium-sized transparent plastic box that clamps down and is waterproof to store emergency supplies, and keep it in the hall closet.)


