1356307200
4.0
review/summary: Wonderfully versatile, a little difficult to maneuver.review/text: Admittedly I have only had this ladder for a few weeks. We are new owners of a two flat. The front stairwell is one of those: 6 steps, then a landing, 10 steps, then a landing, 6 steps then a landing types of situations. This means that the highest wall is about 15 or so feet high, and in the middle of a set of stairs. We initially wanted to wait to paint it (and hire someone) but I'm impatient, and thing I can conquer the world. So I decided if we got this nifty ladder I could do it myself!I ordered it on sale on one of the pre-Christmas lighting sales, and had it shipped in 2 days (thank you prime!) I'm all ready to paint:It is heavy, but not prohibitively so. I'm a 5'0 female, I was able to carry it, move it and what have you, but it is heavier than a standard 6 foot ladder (of course.) I was even able to extend the ladder into the extension position by myself. Maneuvering it around the stairwell was a bit challenging for me, but no one was around to help. (Ok this probably wasn't safe on more than one level...) I'm a little surprised I didn't punch holes in the walls because I was not steady when I was moving it or lifting it up to the different landing levels.Under no circumstances was I able to re-fold the ladder by myself in these close quarters. I suppose outside I would have been able to lower it flat on the ground and then fold it.My husband was able to fold it on his own, I asked him to help me and he pretty much did it on his own.I had no problem moving and adjusting it in the a-frame position to adjust it for the different heights I needed and to move it around the stairs. I was also able to fold it all up and lower it to the lowest position when it was in a-frame.I will say, at some point in owning this ladder, I will probably smash my fingers between the rungs when I am lowering the height (whether in a-frame or extension). Maybe there is a trick to it, but I ended up grabbing the rungs to raise and lower it. I was aware I needed to be careful, but I still see smashing my fingers as a possibility, and it will not be pretty. I'm so afraid of this I might consider getting it out in the spring and going outside to see if there is a better way to do it. If I have a friend it won't be an issue. The problem will be when I feel the "need" to do something when I am home alone. (Which I shouldn't be doing anyway, as I tend to be a little accident prone...)To sum it up:Despite the fact that I personally find it a little difficult to move, its easy peasy if you have two people. (Remember I'm pretty darn short, so that doesn't help me)I also find it a bit heavy, heavy enough that I decided to carry it through the basement to the front of the house rather than through my apartment because I was afraid I would bump into something and damage the drywall. Its heavy in a way that I feel like my precision movements with it aren't great, but not too heavy that I feel burdened carrying it.I find its functions and options fabulous. We do need both an A-frame and extension ladder for our purposes. I would much rather have one slightly heavier ladder, than have to store both an A-frame and ginormous extension ladder to store.I love having it and would never return it, even though its a bit of a pain in the ass at times. (Sort of like my dog...)


