1355443200
5.0
review/summary: So happy with this!review/text: My Lasko Heater just arrived, and I am already in love! I did a lot of research into the reviews on here, and so I figured I'd answer the questions I had after reading them.* The smell: Ok, it does have a little bit of a plastic smell. I've only had it turned on for like 20 minutes though. It isn't horrible, and to be honest, I think most of the smell is from the packaging, and not the design of the heater. I am going to assume previous reviewers were correct in stating the smell disappears after some normal usage.* How well will it heat my space?I live in an basement apartment, in a single family home. I don't know the square footage, but it is a large open studio type space, with a drafty door. There is only one heating vent, and the heat doesn't circulate well. I have used an electric blanket and a basic radiator type space heater in the past. That space heater doesn't warm up my living area, it just stands there and pretends while sucking up electricity.The Lasko though...*sigh*...It is currently about 5 feet away from me as I type this, and I have no blankets wrapped around me. The oscillating feature is amazing, and really warms up the room. It is so very tiny but the air in the room is noticebly warmer, even when I step away from it. I finally feel really comfortable without having to bundle up in layers. I think my productivity around the house will improve, because usually once I wrap up in blankets, it's over for the night.If you are trying to heat your whole home with it you will be disappointed, but for a small room it would be perfect. In my place, it is perfect from 5-8 feet away. Any farther and I don't immediately feel the heat, but the studio on the whole feels a little warmer.TL:DR If you are thinking of replacing an ineffective space heater, to make the room a tolerable temperature, I say go for this one. I'm so glad that I did, that I came on here 20 minutes after plugging it in, to write my first Amazon review.


