1353024000
2.0
review/summary: False alarms, very loud, can't silence them, 8 years old and brokenreview/text: I moved into my co-op apartment back in 2007 with one of these already installed outside of my bedroom in the hallway between the living room and bathroom. After taking a hot shower and opening the door, the steam comes out into the hallway and the alarm inevitably gets triggered. Pressing the big round button on the front to silence it does not work. The alarm is extremely loud which I suppose is a good thing, if it had been triggered for a real fire/CO situation.... but being that it literally always goes off after a hot shower, it's just irritating. I either have to stand on a chair to reach it so I can remove it and take out the batteries and wait for the steam to clear, or I have to use a magazine and fan fresh air onto it until it stops. This has been happening since I moved in.Recently, I removed it because the batteries were dead and it started chirping. I replaced it with 3 fresh AA batteries and had it perform a self-test, and it fails the test. The date stamp on it says July 24, 2004 so it's just about 8.5 years old.Time to get a new detector, and I will *not* be getting one of these again.edit: I had the chance to do some more research via Google and wanted to amend my review. The recommendation is that alarms like these in general should be replaced every 10 years, so about 8.5 years is getting towards the end of life. Also, I should note that the bathroom door is about 6 feet away from the smoke alarm, but that there is a lowered ledge in the hallway that may tend to trap steam in/around the alarm. According to my Google research, many alarms (not just this one) would go off in this type of situation. As such, I'm raising my rating a tiny bit to 2 stars since the alarm does appear to be functioning properly (despite the false alarms), but its lifespan falls short of the 10 year replacement recommendation and also because the silence button doesn't work.


