1355011200
5.0
review/summary: Everything you would expect and more!!!!review/text: I have had my eye on this ladder for years, been back and forth on weather to get it or not. Two years ago there was a lightning deal and I delayed to long and they sold 100% before I made my decision. Although most of the reviews are positive there were a few reviews that had me concerned enough to delay my decision, and consider the more expensive ladders of this type. I finally bit the bullet this year and got this ladder, and now wish I had gotten this ladder years ago. Some people talked about pinch points, let me tell you all you do is push in the blue buttons on the top, they latch, then you rotate the legs apart, and automatically the latchs will lock in on the next spot, then push them again to unlock, and move the legs to where you want. Snap, and the ladder is where you want it. As for extending the ladder others talk about how easy it is to pinch your hands and said it was dangerous to extend. I for one found this to be ridiculous, and the ability to extend easy.1. Spread the ladder apart like it was a step ladder.2. Pull and rotate the locking pins for the ladder, one on each side of the ladder, and then extend the one side. (if youare not tall laying the ladder down like an letter A will also be quite easy) then rotate the two locking pins in, and latch.3. Repeat step 2 on the other side.The locking pins are large enough that even with gloves on, it was easy to unlock, extend the ladder and then relock the legs of the ladder.This ladder is easy to move around, and lightwieght for the size, and the weight rating of the ladder.The only con is that it is aluminum, and that if you are using anywhere in the vicinity of energized wires overhead you MUST be cautious!This ladder is awesome, and if you need a lightweight versatile ladder, get this or one of its shorter cousins if this one is to tall for your needs. My only regret is not getting this ladder sooner, and realying on my very heavy, and dificult to manuever extension ladder. (32' fiberglass extension ladder) I have neaded an in between lader for years between that and my 6' step ladder. I am fairly confident that I will not need any other laders around the house, inside, or outside.


