1359331200
5.0
review/summary: Great fit for narrow fingers, or in my case, female fingers!review/text: It's SO tough to find work gloves that are durable AND fit well for us Tool Belt Divas! I realize our ranks are still relatively small, but we're out here! And maybe it's partly due to the fact that for so long, so many wood shop items have not been well suited to our smaller frames?? Hmmm....Anyway, to be clear, I'm a girly girl. Love manicures, and do NOT have rough, masculine skin. But I also LOVE woodworking! So good gloves are a necessity for me, as I'm not willing to give up feminine hands OR grinding, routing, Dremel-ing, ripping and mitering through stacks of wood to build what my imagination conjures up.After MUCH research and trying on numerous pairs of gloves in the bricks and mortar hardware stores, I'm really happy with these gloves. They are comfortable! Yay! So many gloves and even clothes, come with rough, scratchy stitching or tags or raw edges inside. Half the time I turn things inside out just to not be driven crazy by my clothes!They seem to have great protection in the right areas, too. Extra padding in the palms and knuckles, faux leather on the fingertips. I haven't used them in the shop yet, and if I find the durability to not be up to snuff, I will update accordingly.I'm sure the stretchy material would give to a wider, manly finger, making a tighter fit. But the fact that it is snug enough on my hand/fingers is a welcome relief. I have really long, thin fingers, and if I buy gloves that fit the length, they are always sloppy on my fingers, width-wise. I just deal with it in winter gloves, but definitely don't want a sloppy fit for the shop!For comparison, my hands are 7.5&#34; long from base of palm to middle fingertip, and 3.75&#34; wide from outside edge of thumb to edge of palm. And the medium size fits like a, well...I won't say it. Too corny even for me! My wrist is about 6&#34; in circumference, and the velcro wrist closure can be snug enough for me, but could definitely be made larger for a bigger wrist.I also like the fact that it covers the wrist, as it will hopefully help to keep out flying sawdust. The gloves (MEDIUM size) measure 9.25&#34; from end of middle fingertip to end, and 4.25&#34; across palm (NOT including the thumb). Hope that helps!


