1353110400
4.0
review/summary: Works fine - a little quirky mechanicallyreview/text: Length:: 1:14 MinsI made (and revised) a short video showing the spray patterns from this unit in our shower. While making the video, I learned that you should always turn the selector ring CW. If you turn it CCW, you might unscrew the unit open!----I bought this Culligan unit to replace aSprite Pure Spray Filtered Showerhead in Chrome. The Sprite head was 3 years old, was holding up fine for the most part, but the massage feature was problematic. Sometimes it worked, but more often than not, the massage ball mechanism wouldn't spin and there wasn't any massage action. (BTW, city water with a water softener. No scale.)So when it came time to buy a replacement filter for the Sprite ($10), I decided to vote with my wallet and spent $15 more to replace the entire unit. It was either that or buy theSprite HO-WH High Output White Shower Filter, Polished White, Chrome, Gold(which only comes in White, by the way), and buy a separate massaging shower head. Which would cost more in the end and would look worse.Now, you know how you get a high pressure stream when you put your thumb over the end of a garden hose? That's how it is for the "Invigorating massage" setting on this Culligan. They aren't kidding. It's too strong and the frequency too fast. Even with the flow restrictor left in place in the head. (You can see the towel move in my video!)Fortunately for us, I had already installed a shutoff valve in the shower stem, so I can modulate the water pressure. When I do that, the massage feature works fine. And when you run the combo full spray/pulse, it's just right.On the other side of the coin, when you set the unit to full body/rain combo, the "rain" dribbles out. High volume = low pressure. How is it we all know this but the engineers at Culligan don't? (Interestingly, the engineers for the Sprite shower head figured it out and their unit is well balanced.)Some reviewers report here they didn't like the "beam width" of the Culligan spray, saying it's too narrow. I didn't notice a problem. Our shower head is mounted about a foot above me (7 ft) and the spray extends to both sides of the bathtub at the opposite end. Seems the same as the Sprite in that regard. (That's for the full body spray.)This Culligan unit has 5 settings. Our old Sprite shower head ostensibly had 8. But some, like full fine and fine medium spray, were indistinguishable with our water pressure. (Probably a Marketing thing. 8 must be better than 5, right?)The Sprite had a tang on the rotating ring, which makes it easier to turn the selector when your hands are wet. The Culligan doesn't and often takes two hands to turn.The Sprite's filter cartridges are clear, so you can see when you need to change the filter. (The media turns black.) The Culligan are opaque. And cost $2 more. (I should have weighed them to get a sense of which has more KDF media. They seems about the same, though.)Just got this unit a few weeks ago, so I can't report on any long term problems.I liked the Sprite product better, except for its problematic massage feature. For now, this Culligan is working. As long as it does, it will do.


