1345248000
3.0
review/summary: Good Water Filter and Naughty Little Diverter Valvereview/text: I bought this in March 2012 and it has done a very good job filtering the water from my tap. I have the replacement filters on automatic order/delivery with no delivery charges from Amazon.com and that works perfectly. It's a good unit and simple to install and use.I'm now having a problem with the mechanism so I am not able to give a five star rating. The little plunger (water diverter valve) that activates the water to flow through the filter fails to retract when I shut off the water tap. Despite this, I still think this product is a good faucet mount water filter unit and Consumer Reports rates it very high. I like not smelling chlorine when I drink a glass of water.9/28/2012 Update: Culligan sent a replacement unit and it is better than the first one was from the beginning. It is working great! These faucet mounted water filters have a two year warranty. If something goes wrong just call or e-mail the company. They will make it good. They stand behind their products.11/12/12 Update: The replacement unit developed the same filtered water diverter stem problem about a month ago. It fails to retract when I shut off the water. I don't understand why. The unit isn't soiled, crudded up or damaged by use. Culligan is sending another replacement unit but they suggest it may be a water problem on my end. I don't know. I think it is a good water filter and I prefer it to a Brita type water filter in the plastic pitcher method. I don't mind pushing the little water diverter valve back in but the unit is designed to do it on its own.I offered to send the two faulty units to Culligan for their investigation but they get a set amount of "defective product" each month for analysis directly from their retailers. The Product Tech Support Specialist states by e-mail: If this replacement unit has a water diverter valve problem then it is safe to say there is a water quality issue and the odds of all three being defective are astronomically low.I sent an e-mail to my local public water district for their advice/comment/opinion, and to ask if there is a local firm available to conduct a test on this unit.Comments? Suggestions?


