1361577600
5.0
review/summary: This works great with DeLonghi Oil Filled Heaterreview/text: I am retired so no need to set or program this unit as I rise and shine at different hours.I usually will go upstairs an hour before bedtime and push switch on the side to "On'.Yeah I could learn to program it but at 65, an extra trip up the steps is exercise.The Temp I want is set to 69 degrees. My DeLonghi space heat is switch to On [AND LUX IS SET ON HOLD] and comes right on and I have the DeLonghi thermostat to highest setting. In the morning when I get up, I just flip the switch to OFF and my space heater goes off.. what could be easier. One night I couldn't fall asleep for couple hrs and the Lux turned my heater off/on prob 5-6 times so I know I am saving some money here..I have a good digital thermostat right next to the LUX and so far is accurate..maybe 1 degree difference.In order to get a better thermostat reading, I have a good exstention chord plugged into the wall outlet.[ the heavy duty type that have additional outlets along it which are used for construction or holiday outside lighting.] The Lux is plugged into 1 of those in-line outlets and I have it on a table across from my bed so the LUX is about 4 feet off the floor and far away from the Heater so as not to get a false reading..Works great....Oil filled heater shuts off when the temp is reached and back on again when it drops about 2 degrees....what else can I say.......maybe someday I'll program it but for now, why bother.Note: 1st exstention chord I used with this was a semi-thick one i had used in the past and after about 45 minutes of 1st test of the LUX i felt the chord and to my surprise was hotter than Blazes.!! I SHUT IT DOWN FAST..after examining the exstention chord I pulled on the terminal a bit and 1 of them pulled right out... it must have been only connected to the wire by a thread. It was old but had used it for xmas lights so not much draw. here I was using a damaged chord to handle 1500 watts..So, if you do use an exst chord, don't go cheap and get a Dollar Store one.. get the ones with a thick plug on both ends and thick wire. May look like it belongs outdoors but that's not important and you will feel much safer.


