1357862400
3.0
review/summary: Great idea, short temp sensor is a problemreview/text: Some reviewers say the unit heats up and so gets inaccurate, but that was not my experience. I began with a portable thermostat that read 67, the same as the Lux thermostat. I connected the Lux to a 1500 watt space heater set about 5 feet in front of the Lux and blowing away from the Lux. It ran for over an hour to reach 72, then shut off as it had reached the temperature I set. The portable thermostat also read 72 on the other side of the room.While the heater was running I felt the wires and nothing was overheating. Immediately after it turned off I unplugged everything and felt the plug of the Lux and the heater and neither were in any danger of melting anything. The heat could be felt near the plug of the Lux but the rest of the Lux body remained room temperature.There's an odd discrepancy in the temperature scale of the Lux and another electronic room thermometer I own. I set them next to each other and at first they both read 65. As the room heated up, the Lux eventually read 69 while the other thermometer read 72. But as it got even hotter, the two came back into agreement around 76. I don't know which one is inaccurate or why they would fall out of agreement by 3 degrees and then come back into agreement. The tests were done with nothing plugged into the Lux and a room heater going a ways away.The first night I used the Lux I set it to 60 but it reached 65 in the morning according to a thermometer across the room. I thought that might have been the effect of the central heating system coming on in the morning, but last night I woke up before central heating came on and I was sweating with the thermometer reading 67.5 and the electric heater still on. I looked at the Lux and it read 60. I unplugged it and moved it next to the thermometer and it slowly crept up to 65 after about 15 minutes while the thermometer crept down to 66.5. So the problem is apparently that the plug the Lux is in has 60 degree air around it while the rest of the room is 5 to 7.5 degrees warmer. I didn't think such a huge difference could develop in an enclosed 12x15 bedroom with the heater fan stirring air around. So, I boughtColeman Cable 3531 14/3 General-Use Appliance Extension Cord, 3-Footso I could position the Lux on a table at the same level as the heater and it's been working well. Note that the Coleman Cable points down when plugged in, not up like it appears in the picture, so you might want to get the 6-foot version if you need to move the Lux more than two feet above the outlet. It would be much nicer if they put the temperature sensor on a long wire so it could be moved around without need of an extension. The extension creates an extra electrical contact that increases the risk of a loose connection creating high resistance and causing overheating at the contact with a 1500 watt heater. But I also must admit the Lux is much easier to adjust when it's on an extension instead of near the floor plugged into an outlet. Most people won't need to adjust it once it's set up, however.Someone said they needed to buy an extension cord to plug a two-prong heater into the Lux, but my two-prong heater works fine with it. If I understood the manual correctly, the Lux itself needs to be plugged into a 3-prong outlet, but the heater plugged into the Lux doesn't have to be three prong.The Lux has two great features I wasn't expecting. The manual says it's temperature reading is calibrated at the factory but if it ever becomes inaccurate, you can use the screen to change the calibration up to 5 degrees warmer or cooler. It also has a setting you can adjust between 1 and 9 degrees that will turn the heater/AC on/off when the temperature gets that many degrees from the target temperature. Setting it to higher values will increase efficiency according to the manual, though I'm not entirely sure why (other than you'll save some power heating to a lower average temperature at higher values). Except I think they screwed up the implementation because I set it to 4 degrees so the heater shouldn't have come on until the room dropped to 68, but it came on when it dropped to 71, only 1 degree under the 72 degree target I set it to. I set 72 degrees as an "override" setting so it's possible that "override" always operates with a 1-degree offset while the 4-degree offset will be applied to the standard morning/afternoon/evening/night mode. Since I sleep during the standard mode I haven't been able to tell so far.One thing I don't like about it is that it requires batteries to operate. It could have used batteries just as backup for the clock in case the wall power goes out, but instead the clock and thermostat run exclusively off the batteries and the manual says they must be replaced every year. It uses tiny "G2" batteries so you can't throw something standard like a rechargeable AAA cell in it. The manual warns that if the batteries get too low the unit could malfunction. Other reviewers have complained that malfunction usually means leaving whatever is attached to the thermostat always on, which may be good or bad depending on what you have attached to it.As other reviewers mentioned, you can only set a program for weekdays and weekends. You can't customize each individual day. That's fine with how I use it, but for a lot of people, their schedule won't be so standard.


