1344211200
5.0
review/summary: Nicely done Belkin...review/text: I purchased this product for a few main reasons. The first being because of the outlet layout on the surge protector itself, very smart idea to arrange the plugs in this manner. Having all the wider spaced plugs along the outside to make room for transformer type plugs, while all the plugs/outlets requiring much less space are in a row down the middle. VERY nice and convenient. The second reason I purchased this item was because of the high protection of just over 4000 joules. In the state of Florida, where lightning strikes just about as much as it rains, this is a very important feature. Finally the last piece of the puzzle that influenced my decision was obviously the price. About $20 here on Amazon and free two-day shipping (as I am an Amazon Prime member) for something that costs over $60 on the manufacturer's website, not bad at all...If you are looking for a very nicely priced surge protector with very good protection and excellent features, you really can't beat this one here. It all just makes sense if you ask me. From the way the outlets are arranged to the protection it provides.ALSO, I WAS going to remove a star, and drop the rating down to 4-stars from 5-stars because of this reason, but I changed my mind as it really did not effect me at all, but I still would like to inform other buyers of the matter. A couple values that either Amazon or Belkin's website displays for this exact model surge protector differ slightly from what's stated on the actual box. First off there is the "UL Clamping Voltage", it WAS stated in the description on Amazon as 300V or 330V, I can't remember which figure it was, but on the box itself the description/features state that the UL Clamping Voltage is 500V. Secondly is the actual protection rating. Amazon doesn't list the protection, or "joules" rating in their description, forcing the buyer to look up the specs elsewhere. Once I did this I found the specs to state that the "joules" rating was stated to be 3996 joules. Yet the description on the box itself states that the protection rating is 4156 joules. Don't get me wrong, I'm not complaining about that in any means I'm just stating the possible issues. THOUGH, it needs to be noted that Amazon has since corrected the problem with the UL Clamping Voltage by removing that specific specification. Though the actual protection rating hasn't been added to Amazon's description. That doesn't effect me much as I am not lazy, and if I see that a product is possibly going to be a really good deal, I will put the effort into getting the specifications, whether it be the manufacturer or wherever. The discount you get on this item, versus purchasing it in stores on from the manufacturer's website is well worth the extra work.


