1350259200
5.0
review/summary: Easy to install, quiet and powerful!!review/text: I purchased the Waste King 8000 to replace a 1/2 hp badger. It was a daily deal when I purchased it and got it for just under $88.00. The ISE i was looking at cost $166 for 3/4 HP. I have owned a ISE 3/4, and it was great, but I couldn't pass up this deal. There were some mixed reviews on the product, but the good outweighed the bad, and it was rated at the top in consumer reports.As for installation, it took me about an hour and a half including prep time, un-boxing, and clean-up. It was incredibly easy to install. I've only installed one other garbage disposal and this was by far easier then that one. Everything you need is in the box except, the tools (obviously), and maybe some PVC piping, if you need to modify.First of all, I took off the power cord and hard wired it, I didn't want to put an outlet under the sink. (oh b.t.w. ISE charges more for a power cord). You don't have to buy the suggested 3 bolt adapter kit that people in other reviews were mentioning. I installed it on a enamel coated cast iron sink with the screw on kit that it comes with and it worked fine. I found that mounting the disposer in place with the twist lock to be easy I ready reviews where people where having trouble getting it in place. You do have to push a little to get the disposer to seat properly so you can turn the locking mechanism.Secondly, I did not use the 90 deg. outlet that it came with. I have a double sink, and just put a piece of pvc over to the other side where i already have a P-trap, every situation is different when it comes to this, however, waste king could have included a straight PVC fitting for those who don't need a second P-trap.Lastly, the disposer runs fantastic, as for longevity, time will tell. I'm sure you can find a quieter, disposer on the market, but it is by far not loud at all. Others have commented that the disposer comes with a chrome lip instead of a stainless seal lip. I agree that a stainless steel or a satin nickle finish would have been more aesthetically pleasing, but you can't please everyone. Many people, if not the majority, still buy chrome faucets and accessories for their sink, I personally don't, but it's not that big of a deal for me.Other thoughts: Make sure you have everything you need before you start this job, luckily I don't through anything away, so I had the electrical connectors to hard wire the unit and additional pieces of PVC for the plumbing modification. I did not have plumbers putty, however, I used some silicone kitchen & bath caulking instead. I would definitely recommend this product to a friend.


