1349827200
5.0
review/summary: Works well / Easy to understand / Great battery lifereview/text: I bought thisKidde KN-COSM-B Battery-Operated Combination Carbon Monoxide and Smoke Alarm with Talking Alarmlast July, since one of my old carbon monoxide alarms started 'chirping' (due to end-of-life). So far the Kidde alarm seems to work really well. Of course, as with any safety devices, you never know it actually works until something BAD happens. So it is more for "peace of mind" than anything else.The 'Talking Alarm' feature is a great help because it makes the device so much easier to use than any of my previous detectors. For example, once I inserted three AA batteries, the device goes through the test procedure, by saying"Testing""Fire, Fire""Warning, Carbon Monoxide"As the battery voltage gets too low, the device will actually say "Low battery". That means there's no need to dig up the product manual and struggle to read the tiny prints, in order to understand the meaning between 'long beep' or 'short beeps', and so on.If you don't have all three AA batteries installed, a safety latch prevents the device to be mounted to the base plate. This is a good safty feature, since it prevents people from simply hanging an alarm on the ceiling without batteries inside.The battery consumption is very low. I measured 0.10mA in standby. An alkaline AA battery has a rated capacity of around 3000mAh in light load. So a set of 3 AA alkaline cells should last for 30,000 hours, or over 3 years. By the way, all carbon monoxide detectors have a built-in termination date of around 7 years (something to do with the half life of the radioactive isotope in the detector). So remember to replace them promptly.[Side Note]Some people may want to use low-self-discharge rechargeable batteries such asSanyo eneloopin smoke detectors. But that does not make economical sense in this case, since you only replace/recharge the batteries once every 2-3 years. Also in general it is not safe to use rechargeable NiMH batteries in safety devices. This is because the low battery detection circuit is designed for alkaline batteries. The voltage profile of alkaline cell starts from 1.6V and drops linearly as the battery is used up. The low-battery warning is designed to give at least one week of warning before the voltage drops too low. In the case of NiMH cell, its voltage profile stays flat at around 1.25V for most of its discharge period. But it drops rapidly as the battery is exhausted. So the warning period could be shortened to a few days of just hours. For the same reasons, usingEnergizer AA Lithium Batteriesis also not a good idea.


