1347408000
5.0
review/summary: A MUST BUY!!! REALLY WORKS - Video Included of Product in Actionreview/text: Length:: 2:03 MinsOk...So I seldom (I mean NEVER) write reviews about a product, but this is a must BUY if you have any insect or bug problems. FORGET about the other products because they cannot compare to this one. So I have an annoying bug problem, especially at night and in the fall, so I bought this product to place outside. It worked fine (I believe as I never really saw it in action). Then I noticed that as the bug population around my one window dropped, the flying insects inside multiplied. NoW, the product doesn't say to use it indoors and I am NOT condoning using it indoors.....BUT, I decided to (I did so at my own risk). I placed it by the same window and when I tell you every 5 minutes it was zapping something, and you heard it...It was awesome. Then I saw a random big moth flying and it flew right into the zapper and that was the end of it...it was amazing. What was even more amazing was that there were multiple lights on in the house, yet the moth went straight for the zapper. The bulb inside clearly works. The Zapper is over so powerful that the moth actually caught on fire and started smoking. You can actually see the smoke coming off the moth, here the zapping noise and see the small sparks flying off the moth. I had to film it because it was...GREAT!!!!! (I filmed the video with my amazing EVO 4G LTE, the best phone on the planet right now...bar none - just look at the video quality and the best part was that it was self adjusting and self-focusing!!!) You cannot go without this product. Don't think, BUY IT!!!! Glad I did.I must say again, I used it inside knowing that it didn't explicitly say it could be used indoors. If you choose to use it inside, make sure its far away from curtains, pets, children, people, paper or anything else that can catch on fire. As you can see from the moth sparking and catching on fire, nothing should tough the ZAPPER internally. There is sufficient protective covering so that only insects get through so BE CAREFUL!!! Also, whether it's outside or wherever, never leave the product unattended. Be smart with the product!


