1348531200
5.0
review/summary: All Hail the King, Baby!review/text: I ordered this Waste King L-8000 to replace a wimpier 3/4hp model that had been installed for about 8 years.The old model still worked and was decent, but had recently committed a grievous error...Once a week i host my friends for dinner, usually its pizza and beer and we watch a game, but during the summer months it turns to BBQ and assorted cooked meats. On one of these occasions, i tossed in a chicken drumstick and a few Buffalo wing bones, flicked on the disposal and waited for 30 seconds of god awful racket and grinding to destroy the refuse of our sumptuous feast. It had failed miserably... bone shards were visibly numerous, and the drumstick was practically whole! My friends immediately began hooting and hollering about how much of a sissy disposal i had (as only beer fueled friends can) and as you can imagine, i received quite a few Waste king links on Amazon shortly after from the aforementioned buddies.In my shame and fury, i selected the 1 HP Waste King 8000 and ordered it immediately due to its good reviews and evidently unbridled power to destroy the scraps of my feedings without remorse.I was not disappointed! The day after it was installed, we BBQ'd and kept every bone we flayed. I crammed in a dozen buffallo wings, half a cup of endamame shells and 4 chicken drumsticks to start and engaged the L-8000.MADNESS!! The Good King ANNIHILATED the offering and screamed for more! MORE!!! Every bone, shell, scrap and morsel of gristle was fed into its angry maw as it howled in a frenzy of destruction! After it spun down, i checked the interior, nothing remained save a few paltry specks of gristle and the haunting smell of an Apex Predator.My friends were very impressed, honor was returned to my Condo, and now i have an unstoppable Garbage disposal that is just waiting to destroy anything i can throw at it.Thank you, Amazon. And thank you, Waste King for making a disposal that makes WAR with meat bones in a manner most fitting.


