1346198400
5.0
review/summary: Tried and testedreview/text: This product does what it says. It sharpened all my high end steel knives from Spyderco to Benchmade. It just takes a few swipes and you are done.Does it sharpen your knife? Yes, it does.Is it better than high end knife sharpeners and the traditional method of knife sharpening? No, but it is close.It is meant to be a quick and easy way for you to sharpen your knives so that it will do the job, whether it is cutting food or boxes, this gets the job done.What I do is I have my knives sharpened professionally about once a year, but maintain them for daily use with this. I probably have to sharpen my wife's kitchen kitchen knives once a month and my EDC knives every 3 weeks. But remember, it just takes a few seconds per knife!There is a technique to it though. You should not use pressure. Just swipe it swiftly over the blade until you feel it is sharp enough. Do not use force as this could damage the blade and your hand. Gentle swipes is all it takes. Some of my harder 154CM knives take a bit longer to sharpen. But I do not rush it by using pressure, I just keep at it until it is sharp enough. It has never damaged any of my blades, and I have looked at the knife's edge with a magnifying glass as I was scared at what this would do to my expensive knives when I first used it. Needless to say, my fears were unfounded.Pros:1. Time saver - I have better things to do than spend it sharpening a knife. This only takes about 10 seconds per knife. Every single time.2. Durable - I have been using the same Accusharp for 2 years and it still works.3. Very sharp - Put it this way, it is sharp enough so that your knives can do their job.4. Portable - Keep one in your backpack, camping bag or bug out bag. It weighs next to nothing.5. Price - It is very inexpensive.6. Simple - Anyone can do it.Cons:1. It does not sharpen your knife as sharp as the traditional way, or like a professional knife sharpener.Summary:This is an excellent tool for sharpening your knife. For me, it makes my knives sharp enough. I really love it because it effortlessly gets the job done. I highly recommend it.


