1357171200
5.0
review/summary: Fantastic Tomahawk For Novicereview/text: This is a very well made tomahawk and well balanced and ergonomically designed. I choose this tomahawk after reading several reviews on SOG tomahawks and other brand tomahawks. I wanted to purchase one for my 16 year old son who is interested in tactical weapons and self defense. This item is light enough for him to manage and well balanced. What I like about the tomahawk based on the comments from the reviewers on this site was its durability, design, quality and value. Many stated that their tomahawk held up to various forms of throwing and use. It is not meant or designed to be used as an axe, but as a self defense weapon or tool. My son loves it because it not only looks "cool" but is well built and has the safety sheath for it. He loves the look, design, and feel. His hands are smaller than mine and the handle on this tomahawk is narrow enough for a comfortable and stable grip for him. He has limited use of it since he just got it, but we have thrown it several times at 3/4 inch plywood and a few trees and it held up. He likes the non-axe end which is spear like because it enables him to punch holes into metal containers with ease. I did show him how to throw it and how to handle it from a safety perspective so he would not hurt himself or others. I also made sure he understood that this was not a toy, but a tool and he was to respect its potential to harm or hurt someone by accident. So, no monkey business with it when he handles it and he can not allow his friends to use it or handle it without me there initially. Basically, I am making him follow what I call our gun safety rules. It is also important to know how to position you arms and how to place the tomahawk in your hand to throw it. Most of this is common sense and through practice you can refine the hand and arm placements based on personal comfort. If the tomahawk fails in use I will up date this review to reflect that, but for the value this tomahawk is a steal (no pun intended).For those interested in learning more about tomahawks and their use, there are many books available at the library and some videos on you-tube. We did research for our information on tomahawks under keywords like, tomahawk, tactical self defense weapons, hand to hand combat weapons, military self defense weapons, etc. There is a lot out there for adults and youths to read and learn about these tomahawks. I may even purchase one for myself and carry it as a tool in my vehicle since it can have many useful applications in times of an emergency. The sheath that comes with it not only protects the tomahawk, but is an excellent safety cover so no one would get cut by the sharp axe end of the tomahawk. This makes it easier for me to store it in the vehicle without concern for an exposed axe end.


