1351900800
3.0
review/summary: Take your keys with youreview/text: I have had this lock for about 4 months. Then is started locking us out of the house. The inside lock control would be in the unlocked position. We'd go outside and find the door locked. We'd enter the user code, the green light would flash like it should, be the door remained locked. The only way we could get back in was to use a key we keep in a hidden lock box. This started happening about once every two weeks. The lock would start working again when we moved the inside handle to lock and back to unlock.It has gotten so that we just don't trust the lock. We now have an elderly person living with us and I'm terrified that she will lock herself out of the house and not be able to get back in.I have taken the lock off the door and verified correct installation. The battery has been replaced. We still get locked out when the door is unlocked at random intervals.I contacted Schlage about a week ago. There has been no response (even though they say they will respond within 24 hours.) I've tried a couple more times to contact them with no luck. Today their website was offline because their domain name registration had expired.The lock works well when it works (hence 2 stars). My inability to trust the lock and the lack of response from Schlage has me very concerned. I'll probably go back to a conventional lockset until this gets resolved.I'll update this review when (and if) I ever hear from Schlage and this gets resolved.Update 18 Nov 2012I gave up trying to contact Schlage via the web site and E-mail .... and called them on the phone. I was expecting trouble, but was very surprised and impressed with the efficiency of their telephone support. Completely different from my website experience! I explained the problem and they immediately told me a replacement would be in the mail under the lifetime warranty. The replacement lock showed up a few days later (I was not required to return the old one.) It's getting installed tonight, but I won't know for several weeks if the problem is solved. I'll report back again.Because of the excellent telephone support, I'm upgrading my review to three stars.


