1348790400
3.0
review/summary: Good and heavy, too tall and not tall enoughreview/text: My advice: Always read the mfr description. This is a big, heavy, strong, stable ladder--but maybe too much of a good thing. Note that my 3-star rating is for my intended use. If you have two big strong people who keep this in the back of their pickup truck and need its strength and stability, it would rate five stars.Handling. Folded, this ladder is nearly six feet long and two feet wide, and it weighs 42 pounds. It just fits in the back of my Subaru Outback with the back seat folded. At that, the end of the ladder is on the edge of the folded up seat cushion. This is not like a 40lb bag of birdseed or a 40lb barbell. It is a six foot by two foot (or ten foot by two foot extended), 42 lb contraption. Indoors, this ladder needs two people to unfold/extend/adjust, else your walls and lamps are at risk. The more it's extended, the more unwieldy it becomes. I stress all this in case, like me, you picture yourself carrying this ladder around the house for quick chandelier cleaning, picture hanging, etc. My Werner MT22 is going to get a lot less use than I had imagined. My 20 year old 6 ft. aluminum stepladder is going to remain first in line for quick jobs.In use. Fully extended on stairs (the main reason to buy this over just a tall stepladder), it is remarkably stable...although still scary as heck. Being a two-sided stepladder though is also helpful. Two people can be on the ladder on the stairs hanging a picture, or one on the ladder and one on an upper stair. The pitch of our stairs makes it a little awkward to use once the bottom end is above the floor, but it is still possible. I haven't tried it as a tall straight ladder yet. The wide ends will certainly be helpful in that role, but I will rarely need it.Bottom line. Good for stairs. Not tall enough for serious tall ceiling work. Too long, heavy, and unwieldy for a "handy" ladder. I guess my recommendation would be to get the 17ft for an all-purpose ladder or the 26ft for the serious project ladder.


