1357603200
5.0
review/summary: First one broke, InSinkErator customer support rocks!review/text: I am revising my review, at first I gave this unit 1 star because the housing cracked and it started to leak bad. The downside, this was a house I just purchased so I didn't have any documentation on when it was installed. My review stated that when we moved into the house the disposer worked fine, but after a week it developed a small leak and over the next week it started spraying water when turned on. I wrote a 1 star review and the team at InSinkErator reached out to me to see what they could do to help. This was great customer service, them reaching out to me!I talked with them on the phone, provided serial numbers and in the end they determined the disposer was over 6 years old based on the serial info, and I had no receipt showing when it was purchased but they stepped up and explained to me the fail rate on these is very low due to the exhaustive quality control measures they put into place. The rep I talked with wanted to make sure I knew there were millions of disposers and rarely do they have issues, typically when they do its because someone dropped a fork or knife or something not disposable into the chamber and it risks damaging the blades, motor or casing which is probably what happened to mine.InSinkErator told me even though the warranty couldn't be verified they wanted the broken unit back to analyze it and see what/why the housing cracked, in turn they would ship me a replacement unit if I could install it myself. I accepted and it shipped last friday, then Monday my replacement was delivered. Removing the old disposer was as easy as sticking a screw driver in the lock collar and turning it a 1/4 of a turn and the disposer came right off. I put the new one on, wired up the electrical and in less then 15 minutes was done. I'm shipping the bad disposer back to InSinkErator so they can further improve their products at their request.For it possibly being 6 years old, I can't fault the disposer for failing, and with no proof of purchase InSinkErator didn't have to step up but they did in the name of customer service and product improvement. I know this is a review page for the Badger 5, but I wanted to make sure I stressed how well the support was for the Badger 5 I had, the ease of replacement and use of it.I can now change my initial review of "stay away" to "recommended" because this really is one of the cheaper disposers on the market, and they have customer service to back it up. Often you buy the lower end model the service lacks a bit, in this case it shined and my new disposer is working perfectly.


