1345939200
5.0
review/summary: Excellent Food disposer - Fresh install for the old sink model.review/text: Super quiet. Powerful food disposer. can't be happier!About installation, It's quite simple for an inexperienced average man like me. However I noticed some comments from reviews on amazon here and there said it requires plumber's putty, others said not to confuse user, so I just want to clarify it. For those confusing comments that's because they just based on their own experience of their specific sink model which is not always true for your own sink model. I would have to say it depends on what sink model that you have, if you have the one with the flat sink hole (new model I think) then you do not need plumber's putty to fill the gap since it already include the rubber washer (or gasket if you call) which is good enough to seal the water, but for the one that I have which has a slope toward the edge of the sink hole (old sink model I think), then you definitely need plumber's putty layer between the rubber washer and the sink to fill up the slope gap, otherwise you will get water leak for sure. If you want to know how to apply the putty, search on youtube, there are quite a lot of videos to show you how. I followed the simple instruction from the manual with additional putty to fill up the gap of my slopping sink hole (I firs inserted the rubber washer to the flange, then applied the plumber's putty layer on the top of rubber washer before I affixed it to the sink hole.)Here is a good video that I found on youtube, even it is for inSink-Erator model, but it give you a good idea how to put apply putty and steps to do it.[...]If it is a replacement to replace your old disposer, it will be much better off that you remove the old flange completely and use the NEW easy mount flange that's included in the package for waste king disposer. DO NOT BUY ANY suggested additional part on amazon, they just want to make extra money on you for unnecessary thingy that you do not need. All parts that you need are already included in the package. You only need to run to home depot to buy few things you MIGHT (which means you might not need it) miss to adjust your plumping system to fit the new disposer.The instruction from the included manual is quite clear. You can do it yourself.Good lucks folks and enjoy your new excellent waste king disposer!


