1354924800
5.0
review/summary: A better mouse trapreview/text: You've heard the old saying: &#34;Build a better mouse trap and the world will beat a path to your door.&#34; Well, Victor did it; they made a trap that actually works! I'm impressed.We moved into a new rental house that borders on woods and conservation land, and there was lots of evidence of mice--the telltale little mouse turds on the kitchen counters and in the cabinets, though of course we never saw one.With a young child, I wasn't real excited about putting out poison, so after doing some research I decided on the Victor e-trap. I put in the batteries, put a dab of peanut butter inside, and just set it on the counter. The next morning there was a dead mouse inside. Dumped the mouse in the woods, wiped it out, put more peanut butter in, and set it on the counter. The second morning, another mouse. The third morning, a third mouse. That same day, a fourth mouse! This thing caught four mice in three days.Then, there was a hiatus. There was still a mouse somewhere, but he was just too clever to be caught. Then we went away for Thanksgiving, and when we returned after a week, the light wasn't blinking, but there was a mouse inside--the light stops blinking after seven days so the little fellow must have gotten in there right after we left.Five mice in two weeks, and there's been no evidence of mice since then. This product works, and works well.The only weird thing I've noticed is that it makes a loud humming noise when placed too close to a metal object (I tried variously placing it behind the toaster oven, and also on top of the stove). The device must be using a high-voltage capacitor that reacts to conductive surfaces, so be careful where you place it.You also have to be somewhat careful about cleaning the inside of the trap after a kill. Dumping the mouse is easy enough; just hold the box upside down and nudge the lid open, and the carcass will fall right out. But there will remain the scent of death that might repel other mice, so you will want to wipe it with a cleaner, as well as wiping the remnants of peanut butter away. I was clumsy when wiping off the PB and smeared it into corners and crevices in the device, and it took me quite a long time to scrape it out and get it really clean. Probably the easiest thing is to use a wet wipe wrapped around a finger.It disengages when you open the lid, so that children (or adults) can't shock themselves. In fact, it's a zig-zag pathway to get to the electrodes, so a child can't stick his finger in the tunnel and get a shock. This is a clever and well designed little device, and the batteries last a while; I'm still on the originals after a month. Thanks to Victor for helping us get rid of a pest.


