1358035200
5.0
review/summary: Amazingly Affordable and Empowering Gadgetreview/text: I had read about the Kill-a-watt electricity usage monitor for a long time, and just recently bit the bullet and bought one. I primarily bought it to monitory my desktop computer's power usage, but, as is the case with most people who buy one of these things, I ended up measuring just about everything's power draw. A couple of notes about form factor and such before I really get into this: This device does take up BOTH outlets on a standard wall outlet. The only real complaint I have about it is that the display is not backlit, so if you are trying to read it in a dark corner, you WILL need a flashlight or something to read the display. Some people have also complained that the display doesn't tilt, so you have to get on the floor to read it if plugged into a low outlet. This is fair criticism, and while it doesn't bother me much, it is definitely worth taking into consideration.The device itself can take support up to 15 amps and 125 volts, which means don't plug a device that draws more than about 1800W into this thing, because you may very well fry it. The meter has 5 buttons that each display different information. You can display: Volts, Amps, Watts, Hz (frequency of the electricity coming from the outlet), and the rightmost button, which is purple-colored, displays kWh, or kilowatt hours. For those of you wondering what this metric is, it is essentially (Watts drawn per hour/1000). This is the metric you receive on your electricity bill, for instance. For example, a device that draws 50 watts from the wall draws 50Wh, or 0.05 kWh. At my average rate of 17.7c/kWh, this would cost 21 cents a day to run (65W * 24 hours = 1.2 KW/day).Now with math out of the way, here are some power readings from around the house:*Desktop (core i3 2100 and a gtx 460 SE): (idle)-65W (that's right, after all the complaining people do about how power hungry desktop computers are, my custom gaming desktop idles at about the draw of ONE incandescent light bulb. Go figure)*Same Desktop: (load) 185 W*31" LCD TV @45% brightness: 170W*23" LCD monitor @ 100% brightness: 40.5 W*Old, slow, dying Gateway laptop: (idle) 27W, (load) 45W*Cell phone charger: 4.5W in use, 0 watts when plugged in but no phone charging (I've heard horror stories that chargers draw the same amount of power from the outlet even when idle, so I had to test it. Not true for my charger, at least).*Fender Princeton Chorus 2x10 guitar amp: 19.7W*Boss ME-70 Effects Pedal: 1.7W*Yamaha 49-key keyboard: 2WThere you have it, folks. It is surprisingly fun and addicting to test the power of common appliances. The upside to this is you are empowered to know how much electricity each device is using and plan its use accordingly. I was actually surprised to see how little power things like my PC and TV drew. Do realize that plasma screen TVs and heavily overclocked, SLI pc monsters will draw SIGNIFICANTLY more power than what I tested, but don't let people make blanket statements about power usage. Educate yourself with this! It's only $18 you guys ;)The only other comment I really have to make is that some people have claimed that these have a 12-15 month life before they die consistently. While that is disappointing, I feel like even if that is universally true, the low price of this product still makes it a great value.


