1360195200
4.0
review/summary: My favorite/only tool, but not for everyonereview/text: I love this tool. It's the most convenient way to have a nice knife, screwdrivers, etc without ever having to remember to bring it with. I HATE having bulky keys. House, car key/fob, office, and this is all I have.Tools: Each tool is very sturdy. The knife is surprisingly sharp and I've put some stress on the other tools as well without any chipping.Use: Not for someone with nails. It's a bit of getting used to in order to open it, but I don't have a problem anymore. Delicate nails won't cut it. You cannot apply pressure sideways on the hinge. This is how I broke my first one. Doesn't mean that you cannot use the tools, but you have to remember to firmly hold the middle when using it. Torque on very tough projects is a challenge, but I've managed to loosen some very rusted screws on iron plumbing with this little guy. You'll also want to be aware that the knife sticks out when using, but I haven't cut myself with it.Storage: The knife is NOT a problem when closed. I've been carrying this for years and haven't even considered this factor. It has never been a problem. After bending the first one (see above), you'll know right away because it won't have the distinct snap when closing it. This is a good thing because I wouldn't want it to come open unexpectedly. I just tossed it and bought another one. You'll have a lot of confidence in this guy when closed.Looks: It looks like another key. When you need to cut something open or use the screwdriver, people will be shocked that this puppy comes out of nowhere! haha. Literally every single time I use it around someone, they ask about it. Often, they order one. It's great for guys that need a knife on them but even the smallest pocket knifes are bulky. It's there when you need it and disappears when you don't. No bigger than a regular key.Transporting: I travel by plane quite a few times since I've bought it and don't remember removing it before traveling...Overall: The fact that I broke one and immediately bought another of the exact same says everything. I HATE having a lot of keys/keychains and would NEVER remember to grab an extra tool. Even if you have another knife, throw this little guy on your keychain so you have a backup.


