1360022400
1.0
review/summary: "Swift and humane"? Tell that to the scorched mouse in my yard!review/text: I can't stand killing animals, and normally use humane traps for mice and re-release them outside. However, the mice in our area have figured out how to lift the lid inward on humane traps after eating all the goodies inside, and once they escape and find their way into the kitchen, they wreak havoc, getting into packaged food, pooping everywhere, and building nests. My husband and I glumly agreed that an electric mouse trap for the mice that managed to escape the humane traps and get into the kitchen was necessary, so long as the trap would deliver a quick and painless kill (I've noticed today that, since I purchased the trap, Victor has changed their information to claim that mice are killed "within 5 seconds" rather than their previous claim of "instantaneously".)Over the course of a year and a half, this trap successfully caught about a dozen mice, though I never actually witnessed one entering it and therefore had no real frame of reference for whether or not the guarantees of a quick and humane kill were accurate. Sometimes the indicator light would flash and I'd dump the trap only to realize there was no mouse in it after all. Also, the low-battery light has never flashed, so unless the machine is broken, that shouldn't account for what happened next.While fixing dinner last night, my cat chased a mouse straight into the trap - the buzzing sound of the voltage being delivered went off twice, both times resulting in the mouse screaming in pain for several seconds. I was absolutely mortified. After the machine stopped buzzing and after several minutes outside for me to calm down (like I said, animal deaths really bother me), my husband came outside with the trap in-hand to reveal that the mouse was STILL ALIVE. This poor mouse was electrified by the machine TWICE, and still managed to run away once my husband released him. This machine, simply put, tortured a poor mouse, and that's NOT what I bought this trap for! I bought this trap specifically because I didn't want the mice it caught to suffer!


