1353888000
5.0
review/summary: Pretty damn amazed how much better than Brita and companyreview/text: I needed a replacement Brita filter so naturally I went to Amazon first as to avoid MalWart and the big red bulls eye. I saw the review for this filter and put it in my cart and it sat for a few weeks. I finally HAD to replace the Brita as it was dead and saw I still had this in my cart. It was about the same price as just the filter for the Brita and had amazing reviews so I thought ok, I'll bite.I know its an Amazon cliche but I do not write a ton of reviews as a lot of items are not worth a review, but this warranted it. I was floored at the difference between the Culligan FM-15A Level 3 compared to Brita's &#34;high end&#34; stage 3 filter. I let it run for around 10 - 15 minuets when first installed (this is critical) and then gave her a test. An immediate undeniable difference. We have water with a high mineral content and the first thing I noticed was that sort of mineral almost salty (maybe it was calcium) taste was gone. The Brita did not filter that taste out yet the Culligan did. I drink a lot of Crystal Light et al and this filter allows more flavor to come out of the Crystal Light as well. I have ice cube trays that make 2&#34; cubes for &#34;adult beverages&#34; and even my ice cubes freeze a more clear color. Naturally I had to try one with a mid-level 12 year old Scotch and I purposelessly let it water down a bit and even though the Scotch was diluted it even tasted better than cubes with the Brita. I usually buy Evian and use it to make cubes for when Scotch on the rocks is a good idea and I will not have to do that further.It is smaller than other filters which is nice and claims it will produce twice as many gallons than the Brita and PUR. I truly do not know how you could go wrong with this and I think you would be doing yourself a disservice by not giving it its day in court. Worst case use the free Amazon return shipping.Lastly, a previous reviewer made a comment about replacement filters being pricey and with shipping when all is said and done they cost as much as an entire new unit. I just bought 3 more units as they are so inexpensive and will just replace them as needed vs. buying new filters. The ONLY thing I liked more about the Brita was the little light telling you when to change the filter. Who knows if it really works or if its psychosomatic but I digress.When I was a kid I always remember the TV commercials where the woman says &#34;Hey Culligan Man!&#34; and I now know why they are the leader in the industry. A purchase you will not regret. Happy Holidays all!


