1354492800
5.0
review/summary: Has worked great so far!review/text: I recently started having trouble with mice at work and at home. We had a previous infestation at work a while back that was taken care of with sticky traps, but I really don't like that method to eliminate mice, especially when there are better options like this. I had some experience with electric traps because my uncle requested one as a Christmas gift since he had some invade his vacation home. It took care of his problem so I decided to give this a try at work. Sure enough, I caught the mouse giving us trouble within a few days. Unfortunately, I believe I caught it right before a weekend because when I came in on Monday, it stunk up the office something fierce! On top of that, it was extremely nasty in the trap. I tried cleaning it with alcohol and Q-tips, but I just couldn't get the smell out. I finally did what another reviewer mentioned and dipped the electrode side in some diluted bleach and that finally got rid of the odor.I then set the trap at my house to take care of a mouse that my Yorkie almost killed outside, and then had the courage to move indoors where the Yorkies stay. I had the same success and within a few days, I noticed the green light flashing and we had our mouse. Luckily the trap got it before the Yorkies did or no telling what we could have come home to!One thing I want to note is that there are mentions of some traps having the green blinking light to indicate a kill flash for only 24 hours and some for 7 days. I don't remember what the box said on this trap but with the one I caught at work, the light was not blinking and I was checking it every weekday, so I'd assume it was the 24 hour one. I purchased another one recently as I'm going to leave one outside and one inside to see if we catch any more, and this new trap says it blinks for 7 days on the box.Overall, I'm extremely impressed by these traps. They've taken care of my mouse problem and did it fairly quickly. I'm so glad we have these traps as an option because glue traps, snap traps, and poison were not an option with our Yorkies. The next time I bring the trap to work though, I'm going to remove it during the weekends so I don't have to worry about a nasty trap to deal with.


