1348704000
5.0
review/summary: Easy install, Excellent Productreview/text: I purchased this disposer on Amazon in Sept. 2012 to replace an ailing General Electric model that looks like it may be older than I am. I was expecting the installation of this new disposer to occupy me for most of the evening, but I was happy to be mistaken. The instructions are very detailed, and from start to finish, including removing the old disposer and hooking up the electric and plumbing, this install took me 45 minutes. I was lucky enough that the pipes lined up perfectly, so there was no cutting of the tail pipe for me, which might have brought the installation time up to an hour.Some important things to note for the install:-Do not over-tighten the mounting screws on the sink flange. My first attempt at mounting the flange failed because I went too tight and the snap ring flew off the bottom of the flange. It sounded like something broke, but I was happy to see it was just the ring flying off.You need to supply :-plumbers putty for around the sink flange.Stainless Plumber's Putty, 14 oz-a 3/8" wire clamp to screw into the bottom of the unit.Halex 90512 Clamp Connector for Non-Metallic Cable-2 wire nuts.Gardner Bender 10-003 Wire Gard Orange Wire Connectors, 100-PackTools you may need:-Philips Screwdriver (for the mounting screws, and the wire clamp.)-Slotted Screwdriver (to pry the snap ring open on the sink flange, and to hit with the hammer to open the dishwasher inlet.)-Hammer (to break the seal for the dishwasher inlet.)-Channel Locks (I needed these to loosen the drain lines on the old disposer.)Now, on to my thoughts on the product itself. This disposer is the quietest disposer I have ever heard. Period. When I finished installation, I turned on the water and flipped the switch on the wall. I thought something was wrong, maybe I messed up the wiring -No, it's just that quiet. I actually had to throw a cucumber down the drain to make some noise, I couldn't tell if it was running otherwise.In addition to being ridiculously quiet, there is one major improvement I noticed on this unit over my old GE model. The connection to the sink, the connection to the drain, and the connection to the dishwasher are all rubber. This should help eliminate any vibration or noise from traveling out of the unit and into the sink / pipes.The quality of the unit seems to be pretty good, and I'll be sure to post with any updates as I get the unit more broken in.


