1351900800
5.0
review/summary: Handy device that can save a lot of moneyreview/text: Easy to use, very handy product that makes it very simple to determine energy usage and which gadgets are sucking out your hard earned cash. It can definitely help you make the decision whether or not a device is worth keeping plugged in all the time, whether you should invest in a new device or a switch, or consider ditching it entirely. Also quite a bit of fun.Caveats:It's not perfectly accurate:It's designed to be a consumer device to help you get a reasonable estimate of electricity usage and whether something's costing you $1 a year in energy usage or $100, not some hyper precise tool for an electrician. A more precise device would cost a heck of a lot more and probably not end up saving consumers money overall. It has difficulty reporting power usage of very low power devices- for instance, if I plug in an energy efficient LED nightlight rated at 0.25 watts, the device still registers as 0 watts used. Still, when you consider that running a light like this 24 hours a day will only cost somewhere in the ballpark of 30 cents a year, you become much less concerned. The device can still help you identify vampire devices which actually use a fairly significant amount of power when left plugged in. Just realize that if the Kill A Watt registers 0 it doesn't mean the unit isn't drawing power, just not THAT much power (probably under 1 watt).The device itself uses extra power when plugged in:Considering it's just a basic LCD display which you'll generally only use for about a minute, it's probably not going to matter. If you're trying to figure out the average power usage of a device that cycles on and off (say a refrigerator) you may need to keep the unit plugged in for a week or so to get a good estimate. The cost of energy being used by the Kill A Watt itself is probably going to still going to be in the range of the change between your couch cushions.This is a solid tool to help you cut your electric bill.


