1344988800
5.0
review/summary: Amazing lock for a great valuereview/text: When I saw Amazon was selling this lock at nearly half the cost of my local hardware store I ordered several and couldn't be more pleased.Keypad locks have been around for a long time, but they've traditionally been extremely expensive and quite problematic. Not only is theSchlage Camelot Keypad Deadbolta tremendous value, but it has just about every feature you could ask for. This lock comes pre-configured with a six digit programming code and (2) four digit user codes so no programming is required. Installation is extremely simple and it took me less than five minutes to unpack and install the lock using a single Philips head screwdriver and the included 9-volt battery. Programming is extremely simple and the instructions are excellent.One great feature of this lock is that the electronics only engage and disengage the locking mechanism, but the actual deadbolt movement is done manually by turning the knob. Not only does this mean that there's no deadbolt motor to fail, but it puts very little strain on the battery resulting in a much longer life. Of course, this does mean that some extra effort is required to lock and unlock the door beyond simply pressing a button and should be taken into consideration if it's to be used by someone with a weak grip or is unable to twist a knob.My favorite feature, though, is one that Schlage doesn't even seem to advertise. As it's shipped, this lock is immune to being picked or opened with a bump key. The package does include keys, however by default it's set up to only use the keypad. When the lock is engaged the knob turns freely and makes no contact with the locking mechanism unless a correct user code is entered. When unlocked, pressing the Schlage button engages the knob so it can be locked without having to enter a code.It might be worth mentioning that there is a more expensive version that can be controlled remotely via the internet. Definitely a cool feature, but probably not worth the premium price for most people.Pros:- Easy installation- No configuration required- Simple programming with clear instructions- Immune to picking/bump locking (when in keypad only mode)- Manual deadbolt movement means better reliability and battery lifeCons:- Requires manual turning of the knob to lock/unlockOverall, I couldn't be happier with the quality and features of theSchlage Camelot Keypad Deadboltand highly recommend saving $50 or more by ordering from Amazon.


