1360540800
5.0
review/summary: Parts of it are Beautifully Sad.review/text: Apparently a rift exists where Albom's 'Five People You Meet in Heaven' is concerned, as people appear to gravitate towards either the a) disliking the simplicity of the work or b) enjoying the beauty of the sentimentality behind the work. This of course leads to the plethora of either 1-star and 5-star reviews, respective to the camp you're siding on.Clearly, I'm siding on the side of the beauty of the sentimentality. There were a few times near the middle where I barred the flood-gates, and there were a few times at the end where I couldn't hold them back. While not all of Albom's aphorisms are good ones (I don't yearn my father's attention)there are enough beautifully vague quips to attempt a philosophy.I personally, am not a believer in most things associated to God / Spirituality / Religion, Heaven being amongst them. So, if I give 5-stars to an 'after school special' it's because of the beauty of the story.Eddie works at Ruby Pier, it's the last day of his life. He doesn't know he will be killed by a malfunctioned amusement park ride. He also doesn't know if he will be able to save the little girl in the rides plummet-path.SPOILERS:Eddies Five People:1. The Blue Man - He worked with Eddie's father at Ruby Pier, the Blue Man was part of the 'freakshow' attractions. One day he borrowed a car to 'practice his driving' and in so doing nearly hit Eddie as he chased a baseball across the street. The Blue Man suffers a heart-attack and dies alone in the streets after the miss.The Blue Man represents something of Saint Peter. Welcoming the guest, telling a brief fable about life and what is important 'This is the greatest gift God can give you: to understand what happened in your life.' (335).The Lesson: "... there are no random acts. That we are all connected. That you can no more separate one life from another than you can separate a breese from the wind.' (437).Interspersed with Birthdays (upon which usually something bad happens - his dad goes into hospital and dies a short time later one year; his wife Margaurite is in a car accident on her way to get Eddie from the track in another & this ruins their plans for adoption) to break the action between persons and to offer snippets of Eddies life back on earth, the story clips along alternating the earthly life past and Eddies transcendance through his 5 people.2. The Captain - Here we learn about Eddies time as a war vet in Vietnam. He was shot by one of his own men after being held captive by a break-away sect of Vietcong. Eddie was shot because he would leave the area without being forced; he thought he saw something in the fire his squad had set to burn down the village. The Captain, it's made known, is shortly after killed by a landmine while doing recon.Lesson: 'Sometimes when you sacrifice something precious, you're not really losing it. You're just passing it on to someone else.' (882)3. Ruby - She whom the amusement park is named after. She is the keeper of the souls of those who have lost their lives or been intimately involved with the park since it's emergence. She harbors Eddies father. He must go, make peace with his father for the years of neglect and abuse. Eddie pretty much blames his father for the wreck that has become his life. But he learns that his father died in very noble fashion, attempting to save a man's life. A man whom may not have deserved it at that given point in time.Lesson: 'Holding anger is a poison. It eats you from inside.' (1356).4. Marguerite - Eddies wife. The only woman he ever loved. Sadly she put up with a lot of his bad behaviors and emotional distance. But he loved her and he wasn't ever painted as a vile man, but a distant, distracted and torn man. Marguerite spends alot of time with Eddie, she is young when he sees her but she is 47 when she is taken from Eddie.Lesson: 'Lost love is still love, Eddie. It takes a different from, that's all.' (1669).5. Tala - Returning to the second person Eddie meets in Heaven, The Captain, Eddie is confronted by the shape he sees in the fire that got him shot by a friend. It's a young girl, badly burned, told to 'hide' in a most inopportune location. Eddie 'made me fire.' but Eddie's salvation lies in the work he did, keeping children safe. Tala brought Eddie to heaven to keep him safe.Lesson: "'Supposed to be there," she said. 'Where? At Ruby Pier?'" She nodded (1831).We're all right where we're supposed to be.


