1356825600
5.0
review/summary: The Best Vampire Novel. Ever.review/text: What else is there to say about Bram Stoker's Dracula other than the one word: terrifying. I did expect terrifying - it is Dracula, after all - but I really didn't realize what I had gotten myself into when I started the book. Dracula begins deceptively dull, so much so that I wondered whether or not I should continue reading it. However, the story picks up as Jonathan Harker, one of the main characters, discovers the nature of Dracula, his mysterious business client and host in Transylvania. Then the story moves from Transylvania to a beach town in England, where the soon-to-be Mina Harker and her friend Lucy Westenra are enjoying time together. That is, they enjoy their time until a ship carrying cargo from Transylvania runs ashore near the town. The crew of the ship is either missing or dead, and the captain's log gives details about a creature on board that was terrorizing the crew. Then the story really picks up.Stoker did an amazing job with Dracula. The book starts innocently enough, but Stoker continually adds to the suspense until, in my case, I couldn't put the book down, but I was rather horrified by the thought of what might be waiting for me on the next page. Stoker is able to transport the reader until he or she is Dr. Van Helsing or Mina Harker, and the book comes alive much more this way. Beyond being a thrilling horror story, Dracula is also an adventure. The battle against Dracula has unexpected twists that that kept me on the edge of my seat, and it takes the characters to their breaking points; challenging them in unimaginable ways. There's also fantastic imagery and descriptions, so there's no difficulty picturing the setting described, even if you haven't lived during the nineteenth century or visited Transylvania.I absolutely recommend Dracula, but not without a word of warning: it is scary. I expected creepy situations, but not the seeping dread that has kept me up for a few nights. Stoker is a genius when it comes to vampires, which is why this book has become a classic. But maybe get a night light or don't sleep too close to a window while you read this book.


