1354492800
5.0
review/summary: Still a joy, even all these years laterreview/text: It's been a very, very long time since I read To Kill a Mockingbird - maybe since I was in school myself. But teaching it to my students gave me the chance to explore the novel all over again and to remind myself just how masterful it truly is. What almost everyone remembers about the novel is the trial at the heart of it, and that's for good reason; it's still infuriating, disheartening, and effective, even all these years after the book's publication. But there's so much more to the novel; after all, the whole first half of the book is more about life in Maycomb, from the perils of the first day of school to the difficulties of navigating the complex social strata that make up the town (from middle class to the working poor to the white trash, from the whites to the blacks, from the foot-washing Baptists to the more moderate Baptists elsewhere in town). More than that, though, To Kill a Mockingbird immerses you in the perspective of a young girl who is only just beginning to understand the world, and that choice - to let Scout tell the tale, instead of the rapidly maturing Jem or the wise and thoughtful Atticus - is what really makes To Kill a Mockingbird so remarkable. Without Scout's narration, the novel could easily become any other novel about a Southern town, and the trial just another book about racism as perceived by the white folks who were almost entirely unaffected by it. But in letting Scout tell the story, it becomes a way of exploring the complexities of the world through the eyes of someone who understands none of them - and even more importantly, accepts none of them. That dramatic irony between what we know and what Scout knows makes the book even richer to explore, as we begin to realize that so much of what we take for granted flies in the face of the way we raise our children and expect them to live. If that sounds heavy-handed and moralizing, well, that's me, and not the book; in fact, To Kill a Mockingbird soars by telling its story without ever resorting to preaching, hectoring, or belaboring its points. Instead, it simply shows us a young girl who is forced to look at the uglier side of human nature, only to see that there may be more good in people than we think. It's a book that's rich in humanity, life, characterization, language, and so much more, and it's a tragedy that Harper Lee never wrote anything else in her life. But what could compare to such a perfect gem as this?


