1358726400
5.0
review/summary: Brace Yourself- For the MAXIMUM Ride!review/text: This book was in my eyesight for a long time. Since I likd sci-fi and suspense, it would have been the book for me. Still, though, I was hesitant on reading it. Once I was at the library looking for books and I saw my friend. She saw me with the book and was super positive about it. I stood there looking at it like an idiot. I didn't get it, though. A year or so later, I looked for new books on my Kindle when I saw that book. It suddenly looked appealing to me, so I bought it. When I cracked it open, I was taken away from reality into Max's nightmare. Patterson puts that little drop of dark suspense into the endings of each chapter, and it not only kept me on the edge of my seat, I couldn't tell you how many times I had to keep myself from toppling over.Where should we start? I'm trying to make this review so long. Oh well. I'll say as much as I want to say. You can't stop me.First, the suspense is spectacular. If this was based on archery, Patterson would have hit the bullseye so much Robin Hood would be jealous. The hint of dark suspense he sprinkles in every time mad me rethink putting it down for a few minutes. I always wanted to see what would happen next in the story. Their journey to resue Angel from the School is almost immaculate, I couldn't bear the suspense of the middle chapters. After they're in NYC trying to solve the problem THERE, I thought I wound NEVER stop shaking. The suspense is epic. No more questions asked.Second, the action. I've never read so much action since I cracked open Hunger Games. The fight scenes are played out with exceptional aspects of battle without the dinky swords. Should I even mention the description of pain in this book? I could not only put myself in the shoes of the charcters, but I was able to be Ari for a second and feel the bite pain radiating up my arm when Max bites him. I could also really pretend to reenact the fight scenes from the book. I heard a friend say that most of the fight scenes and wound scenes were too graphic- I mean, come on now. The figh scenes are a three on the gory meter. They barely describe a deep cut or gunshot wound. It's still a good book without the blood and gore.Lastly, the characters. I. Love. Those. Kids. Pattrson nails the points of these characters easily. I can totally relate to a lot of them, and to me they're just plain awesome. Ari. I would make an awesome Ari. He's one of the best villains Patterson ever included. Fang and Iggy are cool, too. I can feel how annoying Nudge can get sometimes. Every story needs good characters, or it's good to say the story has no plot or emphasis at all. I've read many books where I didn't care if they die or not. Others I WANTED the characters to perish. Not Maximum Rie. These characters are the heart of the story itsself. Read it for the characters.This book, as I explained, is the best thing that ever happened to the book world, no exceptions. I explained that there is something to read this book for. Even though there are one or two story relates flaws, they're too weak and couldn't take a star away for them. What are you waiting for, ten pounds of GUTS? Hop in. Buckle u. And hang on for the ENTIRE Ride! And tone it up... MAXIMUM!


