1359936000
5.0
review/summary: Ignore the movie, read the bookreview/text: If you are like me and found the movie greatly disappointing, there is a good reason for it. The screenwriters abandoned the book and greatly altered the hero.A Princess of Mars was Edgar Rice Burroughs first of several books featuring hero John Carter. Carter IS NOT a brooding anti-hero found in the Disney feature. Instead, he is a Civil War veteran who fought for the Confederacy. He is a good and decent man who treats others with respect. He will fight to defend the innocent, the just and the righteous. His actions are dictated by codes of honor, justice, decency and a duty to defend those who cannot defend themselves.When John Carter suddenly finds himself on Mars he is captured by the Tharks. It is here that Edgar Rice Burroughs really stands out as a writer. World building. Burroughs creates unique races with unique and complex cultures, heritages and histories that are sometimes shared and sometimes found only in one race. The detail which Burroughs employs his world building immerses the reader in the story and makes following the characters more enjoyable. The many characters, both major and minor, are well developed and three dimensional. Character histories and adherence to the Martian cultural traditions allows motives and actions of the Martian peoples to make perfect sense.Don't worry, the book is neither boring nor slow. Stretches of world building and character development are punctuated by virtuoso action scenes of intense battle and terrific bravery. Burroughs' careful choice of words and descriptions are neither grotesque nor vulgar. Instead they are exciting, heroic and epic in scale.A Princess of Mars, while not as well known as Burroughs' other creation, Tarzan, has influenced many over the years. George Lucas, Steven Spielberg and James Cameron are just a few who have borrowed from this terrific series and incorporated elements into their own stories.A Princess of Mars is terrific and exciting book. John Carter was to that time period what Indiana Jones or The Avengers is to ours.


