1355184000
3.0
review/summary: End of history?review/text: This is a book about end of history and how to deal with it. End of history, what a nonsensical oxymoron, you might think. Well, let me explain.But before I do that, let me dissect our lives first. To me, all my action can be categorized as the following:1. Necessary actions for the physical existence: food, water, breath, sex etc. basically the lowest rung on Maslow's pyramid.2. Work: Most of us work in an economy, where we provide labour, be it intellectual, emotional, or physical in exchange for labour of others from that or other economies.3. Social Interaction: Most of us belong to some form of community: family, religion, hobbies, professional clubs etc.. Those are the glues, or invisible thread if you will that links us.4. Personal Pursuit: fetish, leisure, entertainment, intellectual curiosity, scientific inquiry etc.Brave new world tries to construct society where all 4 categories of actions merge seamlessly into an efficient system, where waste is minimized, if any at all. Scientific advancement has long rendered the description in the book an obsolete one.Should Mr. Aldous Huxley be a writer of 2012, what would be the premises of the book? It would be a world much more advanced than the one he envisioned in 1931. Robots will undoubtedly enter the scene and abolish the need for a caste and eventually work. No more quid pro quo. Everything you need will be readily available, awaits to be consumed. Bioengineering makes possible to make human out of any human cell, so long as they contain the necessary gene code. All the decanting can be done gracefully by neuro-engineering. In short: a society so ingeniously and exquisitely structured that will left all aliens in awe. Much like how we felt when bee societies are studies.In that world, the only actions needed from a human being are either necessary action for physical existence or social interaction. Personal Pursuit is prohibited as it will bring down the whole system. In addition, it should be a system with nothing left to be done, hence no more to be pursued.That's what I mean by end of history: the only things left for you to do are from category 1 or 3. The natural question arise from the end of history society is how do human species associate existence and self consciousness.Right, self consciousness, the ultimate question. Where does it come from? Does it require trial and error? Is chaos an inseparable part of full consciousness? I think Mr. Aldous Huxley offered his opinion: yes, chaos and possibly suffering are intrinsic elements of full consciousness.If you believe full consciousness is the only thing that separates us and animal, then, bad news: there's no end of history for you. By Mr. Huxley's definition, a society will need to be chaotic to be called human society. There will always be struggle, and in which we find conciousness.


