1354060800
5.0
review/summary: Burning Booksreview/text: Montag is a fireman whose job it is to set fire to books.Montag roars out of his fire station in a wheeled flame thrower to burn the ever scarce book collections of nonconformist bookworms. One day he meets an odd girl who asks questions that force Montag to introspect and look beyond the limitations imposed by his job. The girl asks Montag whether he is happy and then disappears.The future wages war on the printed word to resist excessive thought. A long attention span it seems is the true enemy of the state. The euphoric electronic haze that society demands to keep happy ultimately serves the state's purpose. The war on books began not as a state mandate but as a devolution of the soul. The Bible has been banned and Jesus made into a peppermint colored advertising icon. First literary digests, pulp fiction, and then the ubiquitous interactive talking walls peopled with idiotic families opiated a population that wanted... indeed...demanded immediate gratification. The state has no problem exerting control after that.A woman chooses to be immolated with her books. The book pyre lights the dark recesses of Montag's kerosene soaked soul as he recounts the girl's question... are you happy Montag? Montag begins a journey of self discovery as he steals a book.As a fugitive, Montag sees his unfortunate double killed on TV as he seeks refuge with outcasts in the forests surrounding the city he has escaped. The show must go on and the networks demand a good ending no matter what the cost. Montag's wife betrays him after he confronts her and her friends with the question are you happy?The crumbling, oblivious society Montag protects is quickly flinging itself apart with suicide, abortion and mass ignorance about hostile foreign countries struggling with poverty. The introspective girl is run over by murderous joy riders...later Montag narrowly escapes the same fate. Ever passing jets hearken of an incipient war.It is remarkable how time can make a book even more prescient than it once was. As I commute to work in Germany, I see the isolated and lonely crouched over social media and muffled into oblivion by large headphones while rocking gently to the train. When Bradbury wrote this book society was struggling with the implications of a new medium called TV. Newton Minow,FCC commissioner during the sixties, called TV the vast "wasteland." How true and yet how understated today. Social media is not only an opiate but it is a source of monitoring making it far more ominous than TV or pulp fiction.It seems that the short attention span Montag enforced with his flamethrower served the same purpose as the "newspeak"-truncated language- that Orwell's state in "1984" used to protect itself from accountability. The flamethrower state had it easy at the start, it just let the culture do the trick. The chatting idiotic wall families did the rest as Bradbury tells us in the book...P 53. There was no dictum, no declaration, no censorship, to start with, no! Technology, mass exploitation, and minority pressure carried the trick, thank God.


