1359504000
5.0
review/summary: Some books, like this one, need to be read every year.review/text: I read this Pulitzer Prize winning book for the first time as a 43-year-old and was better able to understand the difference between good fiction and great fiction as a result. 2010 is the 50th Anniversary of this Great American Novel and merited a revisiting of Maycomb, Mississippi. The first reading was a moment set apart, the second reading was a sublime moment, the third (within another seven years has passed) may cause time to move in new ways. This novel is so good that it deserves to be the standard by which other novels should be measured.Jean Louise "Scout" Finch, daughter of Atticus and sister of "Jem" and the narrator of this tale set in the mid-1930's in the quaint Southern Mississippi town of Maycomb. She leads the reader through three years of life in this village filled with wise, loving spinsters; crabby, mean widows; folks seen but not talked about but always respected; bigots, racial radicals and Arthur "Boo" Radley, one of literatures least seen main characters. The story begins with the ending and is filled with how that ending came to be. Not one sentence or word is superfluous and most are placed for optimum impact.As Scout is quite precocious, she is the best choice to be the observer of the activities and the narrator of this tale. Her youth prevents her comprehending all that she sees but her naivete enables her to speak of what she sees without judgement, for the most part, as Ms. Jean Louise is certainly NOT without opinion. For her first day of school, after her teacher has demanded she stop reading, Scout replies, "until I feared I would lose it, I never loved to read. One does not love breathing." (p.20). The three years covered by the book mature Scout, and the rest of the town, it seems, beyond the confines of a mere 36 months. By the time the facts have been filled in and the reader has arrived where she/he began, Scout three years old and has "grown but there wasn't much else . . . to learn, except possibly algebra" (p.321) and can understand the power of not allowing a Mockingbird to be harmed, much less killed.This is a story of such power and hope that this present age must read it in order to be reminded of what it feels like to breathe. The cynicism of the 21st Century is deeply present in the setting of the book (1935) as it was when it was written (1960) but Ms. Harper voices the reality that life is more than the harm, fear and pain to be found in life. There are neighborly acts, days of play and hard work, families with which to connect (and distance from) and a reality that those events are what keep's one's heart beating. The story ends with the knowledge, deeply felt, of injustice unanimously enacted but that cannot overcome the possibility of righteousness because people can choose to change, even thought that change may be costly and painful.This is a deeply Christian novel, even though it is not considered as such. The novel reveals itself to be genuinely so when one of the characters speaks the truth of Maycomb (and of most of us who claim to be Christ-Followers),"We're the safest folks in the world," said Miss Maudie. "We're so rarely called on to be Christians, but when we are, we've got men like Atticus to go for us." (p.246).The story flows from that one passage and it is painfully true, it seems, that it goes beyond the confines of Maycomb. It is so much easier to root for, or curse at, those to do the right thing for us than it is to take action ourselves but that does not relieve us of the duty to do the right thing as well. This is a truth so simple a 9-year-old understands it, how and when do we forget it.


