1352851200
5.0
review/summary: Classic Novel that Transcends Timereview/text: Jane Eyre is a classical literary work that encompasses a variety of genres from mystery to romance. The novel is told from the perspective of Jane Eyre, a young woman orphaned as a child, who struggles to find her place in the world. Traveling among many occupations, Jane finds herself as a governess and begins to develop feelings for her employer, the rude mannered Mr. Rochester. However, Jane discovers that his country estate holds frightening secrets among a mysterious past.This Gothic romance encompasses many themes that are relevant to society today which not only makes the novel relatable, but also intriguing. The reader becomes wrapped in Bronte's descriptions as the story unfolds and takes unexpected turns and twists. From the beginning, Jane struggles to find those who love and accept her as a human being. Throughout her life Jane is oppressed by others who tell her that she is not good enough and is constantly put down even when she tries to change her situation. She is told that she is too ugly, too poor, and ultimately too powerless to overcome obstacles, but she tries regardless. In every situation presented, Bront touches on relationships with people. As human beings ourselves, we are able to relate to these struggles and the ways which we attempt to survive difficult moments within life.Jane Eyre represents these themes and continues to affect readers even today. This novel presents the emotions and desires of everyday people while also including an exciting, thought provoking plot. Jane Eyre is one of those novels that will travel with you over time. Personally, rereading the book at different points in my life has allowed me to read with a different perspective which I may not have considered before.I would also recommend reading Wide Sargasso Sea if you enjoyed Jane Eyre. This other novel written by Jean Rhys tells the story of Bertha and defends some of the judgments that could be made of Bertha in Jane Eyre. The novel also questions whether Bertha's mental state was altered before even arriving at Rochester's estate. It is a very interesting companion book to read after having read Jane Eyre.


