1358208000
5.0
review/summary: When is science fiction more than the classification impliesreview/text: Fahrenheit. A book that can be referred to by one name by a couple of generations. If your going to start with Bradbury (May he Rest in Peace hopefully in Green Town Illinois) this is the place: Fahrenheit 451 (the temperature at which paper ignites--"It was a pleasure to burn.").Fahrenheit has been called dystopian, a clssification that can be applied I suppose, but in reality Bradbury is just extending trends he saw back in the late `50s and early `6os. The book is a story of what we ultimately would do to ourselves, so it's not so shocking in the plugged in soceity that we have become with our reality televisiohn, our big screan T.V.s and our playtime phones, and of course, this web of disinformation and nonsense that I am using. Sometimes I wonder if CEOs didn't just read Bradbury's nightmare and say, "hey, here's the way we can turn everyone into mindless, easily manipulated, slugs. It's more terrifying than 1984 with all the overtones of Stalanism and what you want to call the psycho patyhology of the Nazis, because the tyrrany in Fahrenheit is self inflicted and quite normal in a wayThe coversion of Montague the fireman and the main character, is Bradbury's optimism coming through and is the character hook that drags the reader through the tale. At least there are people who just keep the faith of intelligence and inspiration, the book people who are a threat to the dystopian society just by quietly reading and remembering.If you start here with Fahrenheit the _Martian Chronicles_ should come next, because even though its science is now quaint, there is a moral tale in that episodic compilation and one begins to see Bradbury's syle emerge. Just as with Wells in _War of the Worlds_ the message is more powerful than the factual underpinings. That's why calling anything "High Teck SciFi" just means tha it's up to date with the science of the moment and the we can ask with the Martian in one of the episodes "whose to say I'm not the future and your the past." Who knows? long after we are all gone where may be goldened eyed Martians, living in chess piece cities beside wine dark canals.We see no one of Bardbury's ilke until we go back to the 19th century. In _Dandelion Wine_, that golden elixer, and _Something Wicked this Way Comes_, both of which can hardly be called SciFi, we see that sytyle mature into the trope of the remembered past.But to go down that road it is best to start at Fahrenheit.


