1347667200
3.0
review/summary: A slightly differing opinionreview/text: Like most other reviewers, I was required as a student to read this book (probably in high school) but could only recall one or two minor episodes and decided to give it another go as an adult. BNW is far from horrible--a few scenes are even charming--but I don't quite agree with most of the five-star reviewers here and don't think this book would endure much longer if it were dropped from public school curricula.First of all, let's admit that all the books selected for students to read in our schools are chosen mainly for brevity. Many of our "great books" are simply novella-length works that have no dirty words. In this case, what we're looking at is a short novel--Brave New World--in which all the characters are very shallow--each of them (okay, we can argue about the savage, but I'd suggest he's only a supporting player) does only one thing and has only one single, character-defining mood. This makes BNW more of a pantomime or fable than it is a genuine novel. Further, none of these characters undergoes any changes. Granted, the external circumstances will change for a few of them, as soon as the novel is over (in fact I'd really like to know what happens next)--but none of the characters undergoes a realization or awakening. Do they? They all just get moved from one societal pigeonhole to another. And the climax of the novel is a philosophical discussion, but that discussion might just as well have been presented in chapter one, since all that's needed to generate it is to get a certain pair of these characters together in the same room at the same time. The plot of BNW is just a conveyer belt to brings these two characters together. And again, neither one of them is changed by their confrontation (even if one leaves it better informed). Within these sorts of limitations, BNW probably is still a book "that everyone should read." Just don't expect any flesh-and-blood human beings in these pages or expect more than pantomime emotions. This is a parable.I also want to point out a couple of things that the other reviewers here seem to have overlooked (no, I didn't read all of these reviews, but I did read most). For one thing, the utopia or dystopia in BNW is a Communist state. (That's probably the other reason why we all read this book in school--it was supposed to bolster our fear of the Commies and what they would do to us if they ever got the chance. Anyone who doubts that this "new world" society is communistic should notice that the two main characters are named n honor of Marx and Lenin.) True, this new society also worships Henry Ford--but they do so because of Ford's pioneering role in mass production, not for his contributions to capitalism. Since these people also worship Freud (and even consider Freud a dimension or alter-ego of Ford), it's clear that their love of Ford stems from his efforts to make our society more like an ant farm, which of course is the very same reason they value psychology. In short then, reviewers who comment that our own society is becoming "more and more like" this brave new world must have overlooked a critical dimension. If we are becoming "more and more like" these fictional characters, it's not because of Communism or the top-down governmental coercion seen in the novel, but rather it's because we have free will and a free market system that targets the pleasure principle. In other words, the reader ought not just to consider the commonalities between "us" and "them," but also to bear in the mind the DISTINCTIONS. We are like them--but not for the reasons that Huxley predicted. We are like them because, in effect, a consumer economy which consistently targets the lowest common denominator is, equally, a kind of psychic tyranny. Or so at least this novel might suggest.Another thing I didn't read in the reviews here is mention of the fact that NONE of the characters in BNW are truly happy--and this in a society which claims individual happiness to be the paramount good. Every single character here whom Huxley considers as a distinct individual turns out to feel unfulfilled in the new brave world and--despite all the heavy conditioning they've each endured--each one secretly feels out of place somehow. Several reviewers here have concluded that all these characters are "exceptions" to the rule of a generally blissful society--but a more logical conclusion would be that they each represent the societal norm and that no one in the dystopia is as comfy--even after all their extensive conditioning--as their programmers would have you believe. In other words, don't believe all that hype in chapter one. I suggest Huxley is saying that the brave new world fails everybody--not that it works for most, but a couple of unfortunate souls might get lost along the way. If a society truly works for most, then it ought to be morally acceptable, at least under the "greatest good for the greatest number" theory. But in this book, there's a "new world order" that brings authentic happiness to virtually no one. Their whole ideology is nothing but an advertising campaign, and every citizen whose private thoughts we're allowed to peep into lives that same old life of quiet desperation we all know so well.I can't decide if I'm done with this review or not. Maybe if I get a few comments, I'll add to it later.


