1361059200
5.0
review/summary: A must readreview/text: I doubt I can add anything new to a book with over 1500 reviews. So, like always, I'll just give my personal insights. In my opinion, what makes a classic a classic is something like this. . .it's pretty obvious that this book, when it was written, takes place in the future. Never do we know exactly when, and never is it actually stated that this book takes place in the future, yet it is. The fact that the fictional plot isn't really far-fetched is spooky, and mabe that's what caused such a stir when this book was causing controversy.Another thing is that a classic can not be defined as just one genre. This book is sci-fi, but it's not hard sci-fi. It's not the sci-fi that Asimov presents, where it takes place in space, across planets and galaxies and so on (by the way, I like Asimov alot, I'm not at all saying this type of sci-fi is bad), but with the little details, such as a Mechanical Hound (who was quite intimidating I might add), and the seashell worn by Mildred. It was more science fiction than I expected it to be, yet it was far from just a science fiction novel. It is also mostly a dystopian novel, yet at times it's also a thriller, even a tad of horror, and not to mention some heavy pyschological tendicies. And all of it works beautifully together.This story also does two things that a classic does: it takes a toll, or has a profound effect, on you, and also gets you thinking. From early on, and I mean the very first pages, the mood is dark and gloomy, and already the reader feels dreary. Montag's unhappiness is so realistic, his world so seemingly hopeless. Instantly the reader pities and sympathizes with Montag. His unhappiness, his refusal to just do as he's told like everyone around him does, is so well written as to be completely relatable and realistic. The scene where he watches his wife being "operated on" after she overdoses is both intense and horrific.It's pretty amazing that this book was so controversial and so challenged, especially considering the plot. Bradbury fit a whole lot of story into 150 pages here, and whatever he was trying to accomplish, I'd say he was extremely successful. Something Wicked This Way Comes was a good book, a really fun read (one thing I really liked better about fahrenheit 451 is that Bradbury's writing is much more concise) but THIS book is the real deal, and this is what proved to me that Bradbury deserves the praise and accolades he received throughout his lifetime. One of the best books I've read and I certainly recommend you read it.


