1346803200
2.0
review/summary: Still disappointingreview/text: I was a teenager when I first picked this book up. It was in the middle of the First Great Flood of Hype in the late nineties and everyone from your five-year-old niece to your postman was reading it with inexplicable fervour. It was the Fifty Shades of Grey of its day. Er... sort of.I remember immediately being bored by it, and I remember thinking, even then, that it was poorly written. But what would a fourteen-year-old have known about prose? I came back to this book recently, and it seemed quite different from the text I recalled. Not only was the wording subtly altered, but it was full of Americanisms. Now, I don't have a problem with American slang or spelling, actually I kinda (see what I did there?) like it. But it just seemed to jar with what was supposed to be a distinctly British book. Trash can lids? Regular? Wut? Did the publishers think that American readers would not be able to understand Britishisms (Philosopher - Sorcerer?)? I don't know what possessed them to do that. Would you translate Charles Dickens' books into American English? No.Just so that you can be as annoyed about this as I was, I'm going to include alternative (alternate) spellings in the rest of this review.Anyway, back to the style of the writing. The edited version I have here isn't too bad, to be fair. It doesn't have the long, rambling and contorted style of Dan Brown, and it's not quite as irritatingly brainless as E.L. James. But... it is... pedestrian. There are a great many (a whole bunch of) adverbs and verbs that are unnecessary. Yes, it's a kid's book, but they've got to learn about nice writing somewhere. And there are so many fabulous examples of literature, aimed at children, that are beautifully written.Here is the first line of Chapter IV, taken from Oliver Twist: "In great families, when an advantageous place cannot be obtained, either in possession, reversion, remainder, or expectancy, for the young man who is growing up, it is a very general custom to send him to sea."It's an old-fashioned style of writing: lots of commas and wordilicious. But it has rhythm and it has eloquence. Note also that it has the same structure as Jane Austen's famous opening line in Pride and Prejudice. The vocabulary is great, not too complex and not too simple. Children are very good at working out the meanings of words through context, and this is a great example of something with a touch of (a whole bunch of) a challenge to it.Here is the first line from Chapter 4 of Alice in Wonderland: "It was the White Rabbit, trotting slowly back again, and looking anxiously about as it went, as if it had lost something; and she heard it muttering to itself `The Duchess! The Duchess! Oh my dear paws! Oh my fur and whiskers! She' ll get me executed, as sure as ferrets are ferrets! Where CAN I have dropped them, I wonder?'"As with much of this book - utter madness. The language isn't very challenging or poetic in this example, but it does have that rhythm that makes it pleasurable to read. The clauses are short, similar lengths and they are punctuated. This is what gives the sentence instant animation.Now let's look at the first line from Chapter 4 of Harry Potter #1: "BOOM."That's it.Want some more? Okay (OK), let's give Rowling a chance: "BOOM. They knocked again. Dudley jerked awake. "Where's the cannon?" he said stupidly."Yes (yeah), that's a great way to open a chapter. Let's start off with a bang (this is permissible), and then list a load (a whole bunch) of actions. Whom was this written for, a three-year-old? Because that is what it reminds me of - one of those picture books with really simple sentences that list the main characters' actions. Bah (gah)!Maybe I'm being too critical. After all, this is a book that has sold millions and millions of copies. What I write here will not change that, and probably won't harm future sales a jot (a bunch). It has to have something going for it, surely?-It has a plot that has captured the imaginations of its many readers.This must be true. But then I think of the sitcom Friends. That captured the imaginations of millions, but it was unfunny and crap, and didn't really improve my life or the lives of society at large. Also, I wanted to punch Ross in the face.-It has humo(u)r.Yes (yeah). I will give Rowling some kudos for that. Wit is one of the greatest indications of intelligence and serves to unite us all. Let us rejoice in her sense of humo(u)r. Ho ho (ha ha).-It has a plot with no holes or areas of improbable logic.Google `Harry Potter Plot Hole' and you'll get 408,000 results. Be sure to leave your `safe search' on.-It entertains people.Okay (OK), I have to give Rowling her dues (props) here. She's entertained millions of people around the world and given them something to talk about other than chips (fries). There has to be more in the world to talk about than cooked potato. I suppose (guess) that, if something gives someone joy in their life than that must be a good thing.I think I'm just upset that, even after picking this new, edited version up thirteen years after I tried the original, I still get no joy out of it.


