1356739200
3.0
review/summary: Heartrending Treatment of a Young Womanreview/text: As a caveat I must say that I am not a huge fan of the "Regency" novel. And this novel is so typical of that style of 19th Century British Literature. There is a different view of virtue in the Regency novel. In some novels, virtue is defined as heroism in battle, in others virtue is fidelity to one's morals and integrity. In Jane Eyre, virtue is defined as fidelity to one's class or station in society. And this woman, an orphan and governess by profession, is at the bottom of rural English aristocratic society.The character Jane Eyre is best described, at the risk of being crude, as a doormat. Her only concern is to do whatever is necessary to please those around her. In this heart breaking story, Jane goes from being a student in a school for orphaned little girls to being governess to a Mr. Rochester, who is a rude and self-centered man. Rochester takes a liking to Jane because of her never-wavering devotion to his comfort and ego, so he asks her to marry him. And on her wedding day, she finds out that Rochester already has a living wife, a woman who is chained up in his attic because of her madness. Despite the fact that Rochester already has a wife, he asks Jane to live with him as though Jane were his wife. To her credit, Jane does not agree to this. She has enough self-esteem to run away at this insistence, although she takes nothing with her and is impoverished in her flight.So Jane ends up as a pauper on the doorstep of a random rural English family, only to fortuitously discover later that this family are actually her long lost first cousins. They accept her as family after requiring her to spend a cold winter night asleep outside on their doorstep. Ultimately the young man, who is a parson at the local church, asks Jane to marry him. Jane refuses, not because he is her first cousin (interesting how family relationships were viewed so much differently in 19th century rural England than they are today), but because he thinks of Jane more as a colleague than as a romantic partner. Despite her refusal to marry him, she agrees to travel with him to India as a fellow missionary, but he refuses because he wants her as a wife. She is willing to give up her life in the service of a man who wants only to use her, but then this is the same attitude she had toward Rochester. It is definitely a trend in Jane Eyre's life.In the meantime, Jane learns (also fortuitously) that she is the sole heir of a foreign fortune left to her by a long lost uncle. The fortune would elevate her to a member of the gentry, but Jane, being true to her station and her self-identity as a doormat, splits the fortune with her undeserving cousins. However, at least now she is not destitute. She returns to Rochester to discover that Rochester's crazy wife has escaped her chains, burned down the house, killing herself and blinding him. His future is bleak, but this only makes him more attractive to Jane Eyre. She marries him and rebuilds his house and estate. And, at long last, Rochester sees her as more than a tool. It is a nice ending, I suppose, at least as good as it gets for the Regency novel.It is difficult for a 21st century American to relate to the kind of self-degradation that Jane Eyre not only endures but actively works toward in the face of the prospect of a better life. Perhaps it is a tale of true love, unconditional in the face of adversity. It is also a sad commentary on the social values of a bygone era. If nothing else, Jane Eyre offers an answer to those silly nostalgic people who see 19th Century rural England as some sort of golden era. We can be thankful that, in our era, these kinds of values of self-debasement are no longer acceptable.


