1345766400
4.0
review/summary: Fortuna's Wheelreview/text: John Kennedy Toole was born in 1937 in New Orleans and is best known for "A Confederacy of Dunces". Having seen his work constantly rejected, Kennedy Toole fell victim to paranoia and depression, and he committed suicide in 1969. "A Confederacy of Dunces" was published in 1980, thanks largely to his mother's persistance - and it went on to win the 1981 Pulitzer Prize.The book's central character - I can't honestly call him a hero - is Ignatius J. Reilly. Although well educated, and certainly creative, he barely has a redeeming quality to his name. Ignatius is a self-absorbed, lazy, obnoxious slob, bordering on the pungent, a royal pain in the ass who melodramatically refuses to see the world as it actually is. His diet is nearly as bad as his dress sense, yet his appetite knows no bounds. (For some reason, he never stops to wonder why he has such trouble with his pyloric valve). Ignatius despises modern society; he's a regular at the local cinema, carefully selecting only those films that will cause him the most offense. (He'll loudly proclaim his disgust from one end of the film to the other...and then stay for a repeat viewing, so he can be offended a second time). He lives with his long-suffering mother in New Orleans and has never been further than Baton Rouge. (That trip was naturally a disaster and, if he manages to corner an unsuspecting ear, he'll bore his victim to tears by telling the story time and again). The book's opening sees Ignatius nearly arrested by Angelo Mancuso - a local cop who's constantly on the lookout for a suspicious character. Poor Mancuso couldn't have known what lay ahead - but, having tossed the stone, the ripples start spreading.Thanks to Ignatius, the book probably won't appeal to everyone. However, despite Ignatius being the most cringeworthy character I've encountered in years, I just couldn't abandon the book - there was a morbid curiosity about what sort of a hornet's nest he'd stir up next. Certainly recommended.


