1353542400
5.0
review/summary: reviewreview/text: Uncle Tom's Cabin - the book that created such an incendiary in the hearts of anti-slavery-ites in the 1850s that they rose up against their fellow countrymen to fight against the "peculiar institution". You're probably thinking - what? How can a mere 544 pages help cause something that big?Before we talk about the actual book we have to take into consideration the time period. 1852 - two years after the Compromise of 1850 and the dreadful Fugitive Slave Act which forbade Northerner's to help runaway slaves from the South. Of course, the Northerner's saw the inhumanity in the act and, as shown in the novel, most refused to abide. One argument the Southern states made were that their own slave institution was not as bad as the Notherner's "wage slave" laborers in factory systems.The Second Great Awakening had recently swept through the nation, and religion played a big part in people's lives in that era. Harriett Beecher Stowe knew the big impact of religion and incorporated it into her works - there's almost no page in the book where God isn't invoked. Throughout the book, I even felt my own slightly agnostic views wavering in the hands of Stowe's pious characters and inspiring dialogues.The book shows two very different aspects of slavery - through the lives of Uncle Tom Eliza Harris. They both start off as slaves for the Shelby's, kind owners who have unfortunately fallen into debt and must sell some of their slaves. Eliza's beautiful and talented five year old son Harry and the pious, honest Uncle Tom are sold to a slave trader. This is where the two part ways - Uncle Tom bids a tearful goodbye to his loving wife and kids and leaves with the slave trader, while Eliza decides she'd rather risk it and run away with her son rather than let him be sold. The Shelby's, as they are very fond of their slaves, promise they'll buy Uncle Tom back when they can.We follow Eliza and Harry as she journeys up North to Canada where she can be free. Eliza's husband George, is also on the run from his abusive master. Now, they're both fugitives. Her journey is both physically and mentally challenging, as she struggles to keep her son alive while hiding from the authorities. With the help of many Northerners who refuse to comply to the Fugitive Slave Act, Eliza is on her way to freedom.Uncle Tom is first sold to a rich gentleman who treats his slaves kindly. His daughter, Evangeline, is the perfect emblem of an angel, a sweet, caring child who understands the plight of the slaves, but doesn't understand the evil in the world. She turns out to be too good to stay in this world, and she falls victim to a deadly disease, along with her father. Eva's death brings the end of Uncle Tom's luck - and he's sold once again, but this time it's down South - and the deeper South, the worse the slave life. Even through all his hardships, Uncle Tom remains Christian at heart, never losing faith.After reading the book, it wasn't hard for me to understand why it caused such a riot. Stowe shows how Southern slavery could never be a better system than a Northern "wage slave" - Northerner's aren't split apart from their families like Uncle Tom; nor are their futures dependent on luck or the whims of a master, but mainly, wage slaves can still try to reach the prospect of the "American Dream," while Uncle Tom and Eliza never could.I've read many books concerning slavery and the 19th century, including Huckleberry Finn, and I've read many books that are so obsolete they seem irrelevant, like Ivanhoe. Uncle Tom's Cabin, on the other hand, struck a nerve in me; because, although we all haven't experienced the type of slavery mentioned in Uncle Tom's Cabin, we all go through hard times, and we have all been slaves to something at some point in our lives. Whether you're a Christian or an atheist, whether you read for pleasure or for the grade, whether you're a Northerner in the 1850s, or a tired, stressed teenager in the 21st century...this book is worth the 544 pages.


