1356393600
1.0
review/summary: Literary cardboard.review/text: I intended to write a detailed review of this work after I'd finished it. I'm fairly sure that task has already been accomplished many times, and at least as well as I could manage. Let me just list a few points of the many negative impressions I formed while reading this book.First of all, nearly at the end of the story, when John Galt has been rescued by his co-revolutionaries (or co-strikers), and he and the heroine and their chief partners are triumphantly flying to safety, I thought &#34;This is the point at which I should be sharing their sense of victory, their triumph in overcoming the opposition of an entire society and their daring rescue of one of their own&#34;. I didn't. The characters are so flimsy, so insubstantial, so cardboard that I simply couldn't get interested in any of them. Several hundred pages, and I still didn't give a hoot about them. Or believe in their (even fictional) substantiality,There are some events that are just laughable:John Galt's three-hour lecture to the entire nation, telling them over and over again that they have everything wrong (he does this by hijacking a national address by the Chief of State - whose minions seem powerless to shut off the broadcast. For three hours.). Ms. Rand seemed to think, in this section and elsewhere, that her point of view was so important that she needed to have it repeated as many times as possible by as many characters as possible. Just in case you didn't catch it the first few times.The wreck of the Comet: the premier train of the Taggart Railroad, which meets its end in the sole tunnel that carries traffic across the Rockies (there are apparently other routes to the South, but no one in their right mind would use them unless they absolutely had to). Due to incompetence, the train stalls in the tunnel and there is a collision with a munitions train: hundreds are killed, and the explosion closes off the tunnel forever. Really - only one path through the mountains? (Elsewhere, it appears that there is only one bridge viable for rail traffic across the Mississippi. Really?). The truly laughable part of this event is the catalog the passengers killed in the wreck. - almost like a misplaced parody of Homer's catalog of ships in the Iliad. They are all of them, every last one that is mentioned, a moocher, or a sycophant, or a fraud. They are all exemplars of the corrupt, banal, incompetent members of society (most of society, it seems, in Rand's view) who have guided America to the hell in which it finds itself. What are the odds that this train would be so full of the obviously guilty?I could go on and on. As I mentioned, I'm sure this has already been done extensively elsewhere. I recommend reading this book only if you feel you need hands-on knowledge of it - say, if you are a student of literature or philosophy, or of the history of political thought. Don't look to it for either enlightenment or literary value.


