1359590400
1.0
review/summary: Randism as a Communist Trojan Time Bombreview/text: Ayn Rand studied philosophy and screenwriting in the USSR under communist influence. I wonder if the Randists have considered how the philosophy she engineered can undermine or even destroy democracy by turning people against their duly elected government?Look at what resulted when Wall Street financeers lobbied to remove the protective controls of the Glass-Steagall act and Greenspan-the-Rand-worshiper in charge of the Federal Reserve Bank sat on his hands watching the dynamite grow hotter and hotter until it cooked off.Rand Mania is like an octopus on hormones, growing and wrapping its tentacles around the throat of democracy.Go to Williams-Sonoma and buy a package of bamboo skewers. Open the package. You cannot break the entire bundle, but singly you can break any of them easily. A nation is strong only when it is unified. Randism is divisive, elitist. It glorifies greed. It's against the religious principles upon which our nation was founded--love thy neighber, do unto others... . You can almost feel our foundation eroding.The uber-partisan US Congress of recent years is Randism in action.Despite her pronounced absence of literary skill, there's no denying Rand's high intellect. Was she Lenin's long shot, a Kremlin time-release Hail Mary with the perfect cover story?Rand's Objectivist philosophy as it's being applied can destroy this country by driving a wedge of elitism between the classes that says to the economically gifted, "You are entitled to whatever your talents can wring from this country." The weakening of America has been because of Randist principles not in spite of them.If Rand were merely a philosopher, why didn't she just publish her philosophy and let the chips fall? Why was it necessary for her to put so much into promoting her "philosophy"?Why write books of fiction to hype principles that should speak for themselves. Her public relations campaign went far beyond a book tour. It's engineered to fundamentally change this country by planting the seeds of a destructive, devisive way of thinking.And it's growing. There are nonprofits today promoting Randism to grade-schoolers like mind candy.Randism makes Scientology look like kindergarten. This isn't a philosphy, it's a toxic elitist cult movement destructive to democratic principles, with allegience only to power and money.


