1356739200
5.0
review/summary: Sloughing Through Moby Dick -- As Tedious As Hunting for the White Whale Himselfreview/text: Finishing this book is an accomplishment. It's more than the length. Reading it is a commitment and I feel a certain intellectual and snobbish satisfaction at making it to the end.I wasn't sure what to expect from Moby Dick. I didn't know much: its famous first line, that captain Ahab was obsessed in his quest to catch Moby Dick. I'd been warned that the whale only appears in the last few chapters. Otherwise, I was going in completely blind.Getting through this book feels like hunting the whale. There are peaks of action and long stretches of seeming calm in-between that focus on minutae about whales and whaling. I don't know if any of Melville's facts are true. I didn't bother to check, because ultimately, that wasn't the point.My experience. I'd started the book once and quit. Started it again and got further. But, after a few entertaining opening chapters, things started to look bad (= get boring) and I thought I would quit. I cursed this book on a daily basis. I was bored. I was confused. I had to look up way too many words related to parts of boats (gunwale) or antiquated English.But, somewhere after the chapters providing a lengthy descriptions of every type of known whale (I can't confirm if it presents precise information or not), I got into the experience of reading this book and hungered for it. I got excited when the Pequod encountered another ship. I pained for poor Pip who lost it after being left in the sea a little too long. Queequeg was a favorite. REally, everyone was. Even Ahab was fascinating.The book is experimental and innovative. It isn't a book to read for plot or character development. I think it's the sort of book you can find what you want to in its pages: metaphors for religion, the meaning of life, etc. It isn't an easy text. It requires work to slough through it. But, ultimately, it pays off. Even the seemingly boring bits (though I guess I didn't find them so boring as the more I read, the more interested I became) help make the drama of the final chapters that much more exciting.I won't reveal the ending, but it is abrupt. I was sad when I realized that I had reached the epilogue. But that is beside the point.At any rate, I wouldn't recommend Moby Dick to anyone. It's a particular book that will speak to a sophisticated reader who is looking for a book that looks at deeper questions in an indirect way. The reader must be willing to shift gears with Melville's changing approaches. Finally, it is best for someone who isn't put off by confusion and lack of clarity, who can be patient and wait for a payoff.


