1345593600
2.0
review/summary: Fahrenheit 451 has an interesting premise, but Bradbury's novel falls shortreview/text: Ray Bradbury's 1953 novel Fahrenheit 451 is a science fiction classic that, somehow, I'd never read. With Bradbury's recent death, I decided it was time to remedy that. Unfortunately, I was severely underwhelmed by Fahrenheit 451, and found it lacking in many ways.Fahrenheit 451 is a dystopian novel that, despite prominently featuring book-burning, posits dystopia-by-entertainment, like Aldous Huxley's Brave New World, as opposed to dystopia-by-oppression, like George Orwell's 1984 or Margaret Atwood's The Handmaid's Tale. The evil of the Fahrenheit 451 is not censorship, but television, which has made people so dumb and uninterested in the world that (almost) no one even cares that firemen now burn books, instead of putting out blazes.The main character is Guy Montag, one of these firemen, who, after a few chance conversations with a young girl next door, realizes he's doing bad things and that the world is a mess. This pushes him to start to consider reading the books he's supposed to be burning, and the novel moves on from there.Montag, and the other characters in the book, all seem flat. Part of this is that there's no real dialogue or conversations in the book. With the exception of Guy's horrid wife and her friends who basically say "Shut up, my shows are on!" all book, every time a character opens their mouth, it seems they launch into a diatribe - the protagonist and his allies for books, and the antagonists against them. There's no real debate of ideas, and the characters all seem like mouthpieces for Bradbury, either for his anti-technology position or straw men for the anti-book position.The idea of a dystopia brought on by entertaining the citizens into apathy is a perfectly good one, and Huxley did a fine job with it in Brave New World. However, I just couldn't buy Bradbury's take. As far as he's concerned, technology can only be used to placate the masses through their wall-sized TV's or proto-Walkmen. In Fahrenheit 451, the means of content creation still rest, as they did in the '50's, in the hands of the few. This fails to account for the way technology really played out. Sure, we all have huge HDTV's and smartphones with Bluetooth headphones, but we also use all this fantastic technology to connect with people around the world in ways never before possible, and we seek out alternate sources of information that could never have reached nearly as as many people. Sure, plenty of people just let TV rot their brains, but I'm not convinced that's any different today than the '50's, and the technology now has so many other fantastic and worthwhile uses Bradbury ignores or can't predict. Bradbury also ignores that a large percentage of books aren't any better than TV. Just because it's printed on a dead tree doesn't make it Plato or Dickens.Let me also say something about the end of the novel and the war background thread. All through the novel there's imminent threat of war, though - perhaps this is to reflect the characters' lack of concern - what the war is about, who it's with, or how it will be fought is never really addressed, until the end of the book. All of a sudden, it pops up in a major way, and then a page or two later the book's over. It's like Bradbury ran out of story and decided "Eh, I'll just toss in a mention or two of war earlier in the book, then let that take care of everything at the end." Maybe this is related to the fact that Fahrenheit 451 started as a short story, was expanded to a novella, then expanded again to a novel. Maybe there just wasn't enough story to flesh the ideas out to that long a format. In any case, the war thread is a horrible deus ex machina (see 1984 for how to weave war into a dystopian story effectively), and the ending is almost a non-ending. I don't mind a grim or ambiguous ending, but Fahrenheit 451 can't even deliver in that way.The writing style also gave me problems. Bradbury goes on for paragraphs describing scenery in repetitive flowery language, then in a plain sentence or two you hardly notice, he slips in a major event with little emphasis. It's just uneven, tedious, and makes things hard to follow.I love golden age science fiction from Isaac Asimov and Robert Heinlein, so it's not that I don't enjoy the genre or the era. Yeah, 1950's science fiction has its issues these days, but I don't mind those too much, as writers like Asimov an Heinlein penned entertaining stories with lasting messages. I know Bradbury is looked at in a similar way, but from Fahrenheit 451, I just can't put him in the same class as Asimov or Heinlein.I listened to Harper Audio's 2001 production of Fahrenheit 451, ready by Ray Bradbury. I thought it would be interesting to hear the book as envisioned by the author. I was wrong. Bradbury was not an effective narrator. He has a single tone in which he reads. It can be hard to tell if he's narrating description or reading dialogue, or if he's reading dialogue, which character is speaking. Conversations (such as they are, see above) are horrible to try to follow. I just can't recommend anyone, even a hardcore Bradbury fan, listen to this production. There are other versions out there read by professional audio book readers. Get one of them. It has to be better. One other problem with the production are the track times. These are rarely worth mentioning for audio books, but in this case, they are. The tracks range from 1:37 to 28:37 in length, and for no apparent reason. Tracks aren't tied to chapters or anything else I could discern. They just vary wildly in how long they are, which makes it very hard to keep track of where in the book you are. There's no reason for this. The production includes a 2001 interview with Bradbury after the book itself. The entire production runs approximately 6 hours, and about an hour of that is the interview.I can't recommend Fahrenheit 451. Yes, it has an interesting premise, but Bradbury just isn't up to turning it into a compelling story. If you're looking for a good dystopian novel, you'd do better to read 1984, The Handmaid's Tale, or Brave New World. And if you still want to read Fahrenheit 451, do not under any circumstances listen to Bradbury's narration of it.


