1358121600
3.0
review/summary: Wuthering Heights Reviewreview/text: I found this book quite confusing at first, as you are just thrown into the situation and most of the story is disclosed through a narrative by the housemaid to a new tenant. I'm also just starting to get used to the way people were referred to back in those times. One character can wear many names: Miss Earnshaw, Miss Catherine, Missy, Cathy, Mrs. Linton; makes it appear there are five characters right there instead of just one. Although I did eventually figure out that Cathy was actually Catherine's daughter, but I still have a hard time keeping characters straight in classic books.While I probably wouldn't classify this book as a page turner, when I do set it down, I don't set it down for long. I often can't wait to pick it up and hear more of the story, hoping it will all makes sense eventually. One is told the characters at the present time of the book, the housekeeper starts her story with a completely different situation, and as the story unfolds I cannot help but wonder what could possibly transpire to get the cast of characters where they are "today".I'm torn between hatred of Heathcliff and pity. Was he heartless because he was a scoundrel or because his heart had been broken to bits?I still find it hard to understand dialogue when it is spelled phonetically based on the character's speech patterns. Mark Twain is also known for doing this. I find it easiest to read these passages aloud and pray my family doesn't think I am nuts. But still I found that I couldn't understand a word that Joseph said. The gist of what I did get from him, he probably wasn't saying anything very nice anyhow. It doesn't seem that he had ever heard the adage "if you can't say something nice, don't say anything at all". I'd have sacked his sorry butt and sent him packing if I had been lord of the manor.Is it just me or were people more apt to fall ill back then? The housekeeper/narrator had been out in the rain and gotten her feet wet. As a result she was bed ridden for THREE weeks. Jane Bennet, in Pride and Prejudice, was sick for months after getting caught in the rain. One could argue that we have better doctors today, though I'm not sure I would agree, or that they didn't have Nyquil back then. Personally, I often get caught in the rain without need of either a visit to my general quacktitioner or over the counter cold medicines. There were other illnesses where the cause of which seemed strange to me, but I don't want to go into specifics for fear of giving away too much of the book.One thing I found humorous, the main female character compares a situation in her life to a passage in another book which I just finished.


