1348099200
2.0
review/summary: An interesting idea, but disappointing storyreview/text: *Possible spoiler warning*My friend who had read this book before suggested it to me. After finishing it, I found that our views on it were clearly different.The good:-Theme: The importance of appearance in our world is always something interesting to explore. The book also highlights the importance of individualality.-The plot: A girl has to decide between becoming pretty like she's dreamed of her whole life or staying loyal to her friend and remaining 'ugly' forever.The bad:-Tally: While this is partly due to the world she lives in, it's obvious one of the most important things to her is beauty. She's even willing to betray her trusting friend if it means she gets the operation. Tally knows Shay likes David, but only ignores this besides when thinking that Shay might get jealous. She comes off as whiny, unsympathetic, and rude. She's not the kind of character that you can feel for, relate to, or support. This might work for a supporting character, but definitely not the main character.-Shay: While Shay started off as a great character who wanted to be herself, not a pretty, her personality and role quickly changed. Instead of being the girl whose best friend took her crush, she's the whiny jerk who won't accept that the person she likes is interested in someone else. By the end of the book, she's a pretty, which ruins what was her main character point. She was the only one to care that Tally had been a spy all along. Everyone else was surprised, but quickly got over it and accepted Tally.-The romance: I didn't understand the romance between Tally and David. You get tiny hints that Tally's attracted to him, large hints from David, then BAM! She goes to meet his parents. I felt the romance was flat, as after they were "a couple" the only attraction they showed to each other was kissing. Then, at the end of the book, they're in love. It felt rushed and fake.Overall, the book isn't worth rereading in my opinion. It was streched out and rushed at the same time, had dull character interactions, and just fell flat. Midnighters was better. Enough said.


