1356652800
5.0
review/summary: A horrifying dystopian future that only seems more likely todayreview/text: I've read lots of dystopian novels, but it's hard to think of one that's as incendiary and politically charged as The Handmaid's Tale - but the fact that it only feels even more relevant today than it might've when it was originally published speaks to its importance. The Handmaid's Tale is the tale of an America conquered by hardline evangelical Christian forces that have waged war on non-believers and those who belong to "incorrect" sects, but more than that, it's a story about what happens when pro-life/anti-woman sentiments are allowed to run unchecked. This is a society in which women are either stay-at-home wives who keep their mouths shut, servants, or traveling wombs, and none of them have much say in their own lives. It's a world in which sex is only for reproduction, never for recreation, and certainly never for pleasure. More intriguingly, it's the first generation of this world - which means that every woman in it remembers what her old life was like, and is forced to compare it to this brave new world. In short, it's a world that doesn't seem so far-fetched when you start thinking about people like Todd Akin, Richard Mourdock, and other politicians whose insane opinions about rape and women's rights still managed to find supporters. None of this would matter, of course, if The Handmaid's Tale wasn't a great novel, but between Atwood's beautiful prose, her controlled pacing that allows us to keep discovering new horrors in this dystopia, her strong character work, and the rich plotting that both advances the story and develops the themes of the novel, there's a lot here to chew on. I've heard about Atwood for years, and just never gotten around to checking her out; having read this inflammatory, magnificent piece of writing, though, she's going to be a priority for me for some time. (Note: This year, Nashville decided to have a citywide book club, and mayor Karl Dean chose The Handmaid's Tale as the first book. That is a choice that stuns me in its gutsiness and courage, especially during such a contentious election year. But it's also kind of amazing.)


