1347926400
5.0
review/summary: Prescient foreshadowing of civil liberties issues of the presentreview/text: George Orwell's landmark book 1984 is one of the most important books of the twentieth century. Orwell was deeply distressed at the totalitarian experiments of Soviet Russia and Nazi Germany. He thought that government surveillance and control of the press were trends that could make life an unliveable distopian nightmare.Orwell was a keen observer who saw trends developing in the future. He saw that as technology got more advanced, the repressive governments could gain greater controls of the populace. Orwell saw the rise of China as a reality in the future. He believed that the governments would foster a climate of perpetual war to provide a clear and present danger and a justification for empowering a military-industrial complex and giving justification for the strict controls of communication and the dissemination of information.Orwell shows that the egalitarian rhetoric of the corrupt regimes would never lead to better quailty of life for the peoples of the world. There would be perpetual shortages of consumer goods similar to those of Stalinist Russia. Orwell saw the secret police and show trials of the Soviet Union and the need for occasional purges as especially frightening trends.Orwell did not have a positive outlook about the future. His story of the travails of Winston Smith at the hands of "Big Brother" serves as a warning of what could be the result when people fail to be vigilant about protecting fundamental human rights. Orwell was a socialist with anarchist tendencies. However, his warnings can be valuable for people of any ideological persuasion. The book reminds people of the need to protect the right of open communication in the society. Orwell was a critic of the stifling censorship he witnessed in that era. 1984 is an essential book to read. It teaches some valuable lessons about the fact that freedom is fragile and people need to be watchdogs to protect basic civil liberties.


