1357776000
5.0
review/summary: It really makes you think.review/text: We read this for our 8th grade English class and really enjoyed it. It's one of those books that although confusing at first really makes you think. Lois Lowry paints the picture of what seems to be a perfect utopian community. The idea of such a utopian society can be incredibly tempting, especially when people today are experiencing things like the aftermath of the senseless shooting in Newtown, CT. The idea or promise of a society where there is order and no fear of such things ever happening again might be enough to convince people that living in such a world might be worth any sacrifice.But Lois Lowry's novel forces the reader to think about whether this feeling of safety and security is worth giving up your rights to be an individual. The community she created shows a very orderly, predictable and secure atmosphere. A select group of Elders every aspect of people's lives, from who they marry, what job they will have down to when each child receives his/her first bicycle.as well as other such rites of passage. This control over the lives of people in the community values sameness and ability to live without worry as they never experience pain or hardship. And who can blame them? Idealistically this sounds great, a world without pain and suffering where every member plays a role and contributes to their community. Even the weather is always perfect and everyone's basic needs are taken care of, no poverty, and no starvation. But in order to achieve this, the people must sacrifice freedom and individuality and the ability to think for themselves. It's as if they have been brainwashed and never question authority. Yes, it might be safer, but is that really the way you'd want to live?The book's main character, 12 year old Jonas is assigned the role of the Memory Keeper. There is only one other person that will mentor him, that in time he affectionately calls the Giver. They alone will hold the knowledge and memories of life's experiences, the good and the bad, the beauty and ugliness as well as the love and hate that truly make us human. By holding these memories, they spare the rest of their community from experiencing any pain and suffering. Yet through his training by his mentor, Jonas comes to realize that true wisdom can only come through experiencing life along with all of its emotions. It is the feelings and relationships that truly give our lives meaning.Jonas is saddened and angered through the realization that the people in his life truly have no real connection to others and feel no responsibility for their actions. This becomes most apparent when Jonas finally realizes what "Releasing" someone means. It is in actuality killing them. For the old, this may seem a humane way to keep them from suffering through old age after they are no longer productive, active members giving back to their society. Yet, the cruel idea of infanticide, killing innocent babies because they are born identical twins or do not measure up to certain standards is disgusting to him. He and his mentor devise a plan to bring the memories and real life back to their community...but things do not go as planned and as Jonas flees his community in an attempt to save an innocent child he has grown to love, we as the readers are left with so many unanswered questions? By leaving, did he experience a better life? Maybe that is left for us to decide.


