1348012800
4.0
review/summary: A Scathing Review of the 1920'sreview/text: I have always been a reader, but I have never been terribly interested in fiction. Over the last three years I have slowly developed a taste for it. Because I am such a novice to literary analysis I am not sure how beneficial my review will be, but I will give you my thoughts on this important work. I never had to read this book in High School but I decided to read it in preparation for teaching a High School history class on the 1920's. F. Scott Fitzgerald's book is an important social commentary on his own time. For that matter there are things in this book that are applicable to the world that we live in. It is is a book that is essentially centered around morality and the woes that come to us when we throw off moral restraint and embrace hedonism.The 1920's was a fun period in many ways but it was also bloated. This was an age defined by crime, the tearing down of old social mores, and excess. F. Scott Fitzgerald has strong feelings about this issue. The characters are hard to like and yet they are hard to completely hate. The main character, Nick Carraway, is a small town boy that moves into a nice neighborhood in the city. He is relatively naive in his understanding of the world. He is attracted by the glitz and glamour of city life but soon finds that he is confronted with moral dilemmas that place him in an uncomfortable situation. His cousin Daisy is a fun-loving swinger who seeks, fun, thrills, and financial security even though she is not happy. She is silly and frivolous and likely stands to represent the spirit of the era. Her husband is an arrogant, bloated, racist, hypocrite who expects his wife to live by standards that he himself does not keep. His attraction to racist ideology reminded me that it was in the 1920's that the KKK was expanding as well as the eugenics movement in Europe. Jordan Baker, the friend of Daisy and the girlfriend of Carraway, is the quintessential carefree Flapper girl that was fun to be with but not necessarily "the marrying type."Gatsby is the center of the story. He is the wealthy neighbor of Nick. I thought that Gatsby was the hardest character to analyze. He is at certain points a likable character and yet while he is a better guy than Tom, he seems to have become caught up in the lifestyle he has made for himself. He is empty and hallow and seems to lack a strong moral compass. At times he is commendable and chivalrous. It makes you believe that underneath what was apparent was a person who had the potential to do well. Yet the way he made his money and the seedy, gritty nature of his business showed another side to Gatsby. Nick becomes a friend who feels both admiration and disgust. The most interesting character is not even a character but a pair of eyes on the billboard in downtown New York City. The T.J. Eckleburg sign is in my opinion representative of the eyes of God who sees the entire scenario and silently watches everything.The book was well-written but one of the negative aspect of the book for me was the fact that there were places where it was easy to get lost, and a few times I did become disoriented as to what was going on. The book is thick with symbolism and I found this to be both unique and cumbersome. I am sure there is so much to this book that I was not able to really explore. I was hoping that I would find a unique passage that I could have my students analyze but the book did not really offer a section that was reflective. For example: Dostoevsky in his book "Brothers Karamazov" has the great writing called the "Grand Inquisitor." This is a piece of literature that can be isolated from the book and examined as it provides great insight into the issue that Dostoevsky is attempting to address. Fitzgerald chose not to do that with this book. However, despite these small issues I am certainly interested in reading more of Fitzgerald's works as it is apparent that he has a lot to say to his generation whether they wanted to hear it or not.The Great Gatsby gives us the message that not everything that glitters is gold. The 1920's look fun and carefree but not everybody thought they were a healthy time. It is message about the emptiness that comes from opulence and indulgence and warns not only his time but every generation of the danger it brings. Wealth and power often bring corruption and while they appear enticing they offer very little. It is a warning of what happens when people throw off moral constraints to rush headlong into a life of pleasure and party. Overall, the book was well done and gave me a good look at one of the ways that people living in the 20's saw their own time. School textbooks tell a "Disney" version of history where everything is good and everyone is having fun. The Great Gatsby challenges that idea by offering another perspective of the time. I think this benefits students to enable them to see events through various sets of eyeballs. Needless to say, this is well worth the read.


