1357862400
5.0
review/summary: A classic, which every fan of epic fantasy should have read.review/text: Far over the misty mountains coldTo dungeons deep and caverns oldThe pines were roaring on the height,The winds were moaning in the night.The fire was red, it flaming spread;The trees like torches blazed with light."The Hobbit" led me into its wondrous world and didn't let me go anymore.Bilbo Baggins leads a rather comfortable life in his little hobbit-hole. He very much enjoys going back and forth between his numerous pantries and smoking some pipes.One day Bilbo gets an unexpected visitor: The wizard Gandalf is standing at his door and offers him an even more unexpected adventure. Bilbo, though, doesn't have the slightest desire to be part of this. He prefers to concentrate on less dangerous things, such as cake for example. Lots of cakes, to be perfectly clear.However, shortly after, Bilbo is confronted with even more unannounced visitors - a bunch of dwarves are making themselves comfortable in his living room and eat all the delicacies from his pantries while discussing and planning said adventure. It takes some serious persuasion by Gandalf (that very much address Bilbo's idea of honor) to make the little hobbit decide to accompany the dwarves on their daring journey. He does regret this decision several times later on.Together with the wizard and 13 more or less brave dwarves he has to pass trolls, make it through the dangerous Misty Mountains and through the even more dangerous Mirkwood with its enchanted Forest River, to eventually reach Lonely Mountain. This is the final destination of their risky journey, because there, the dragon Smaug is sitting on a huge golden treasure that once was stolen from the dwarves and which they now want to get back under all circumstances.With the help of a golden ring, that Bilbo receives through a trick from the strange creature Gollum, and which can make its wearer invisible, he escapes great dangers more than once. Slowly, the once frightened and cautious Bilbo Baggins turns into a brave and bold version of himself, who saves his companions from danger several times.It was exciting to accompany Bilbo on all his adventures. A big reason for that is Tolkien's impressive writing style: It is captivating and totally dragging the reader into the story - there is no escape. Often, I have been staying up late to read "only one more chapter" (we all know how that works ;) ). Many times, I had to smile about cranky Bilbo or the grumpy dwarves.I loved this courageous little group; constantly hoping, they would be able to successfully fight all the dangers, and hopefully with most of them surviving. ;DBilbo's character really developed through all of this. By the end of the book there was almost nothing left of the once timid hobbit. Okay, he still is a little greedy when it comes to food, but I guess that's just in the nature of hobbits. He has a good heart, is honest and always tries to make everyone happy and to be fair. Overall, he was such a likeable character to me, which is a bit weird, because in Lord of the Rings, I found his character to be rather strange and couldn't get a real connection to him. Now, that I know his own `story', I understand his character much better and just love that charmingly quirky dude.The end of this book, which apparently left many people disappointed, was totally okay with me. It was exciting and exactly what I was expecting. With Tolkien, most stories are built up the same: There's an adventurous journey, with a lot of dangers and mystical creatures such as elves, Orcs, Wargs or, well, dragons. At some point the journey ends and then there is a furious ending, which I, of course, don't want to spoil here ;). So, like I said, I expected it and it was just perfect to me.I even shed some smallish tears over it and finished the book with a big *SIGH*. I was sad that the long journey now had come to its end. One of my favorite quotes is from Paul Sweeney: "You know you've read a good book when you turn the last page and feel a little as if you have lost a friend."This.With each end every book of Tolkien's.I am going to watch the movie next week and am very excited about it :)The Misty Mountains Song, which I posted at the beginning of this review, already very much convinced me and I hope the rest of the movie is just as awesome :)However, I do think that making a trilogy out of a book that only has ~300 pages is somewhat strange (and very much "milking the cow" = pure money making), but okay.Gotta watch the movie first to form my own opinion about that - maybe a trilogy really is a good idea in the end.To me, "The Hobbit" certainly is a classic, which every fan of epic fantasy should have read at least once in their lifetime.


