1345075200
5.0
review/summary: Reading this made a very rememberable summerreview/text: I'll never forget reading this 6 years ago- mostly because I remember reading it in the hospital waiting room and cafeteria while my granny was on her death bed. Summer had gone great that year, but then all of a sudden, out of the blue, my granny fell ill with Patriotic Cancer and was dead less than a week later- it shocked us all but mostly, it shocked me. She had been one of my best friends. Anyway, I had had no idea that we were supposed to read this for our summer reading- my Mom just happened to look on the school website and then thrusted the book into my hands with the words : "Your summer's up. Start reading. Now." - in a sense, not those exact words.I remember looking at the cover (not this same exact cover, but the one w/the picture of Scout) and reading the title and reading the back cover and thinking, "I am NOT going to be reading this. I refuse. I dont care about how you can kill a Mockingbird." Oy, how wrong and naive and stupid I was, not realizing that that wasn't at all the plot point.After re-reading it many times, I can understand why it's a Classic of American Literature- and my favorite book. It's incredible and Harper Lee has such a way of making you feel like you're right there in the story, experiencing it. That's how I felt from the first word to the last word, all the way though-out. Major props to her. And that's how I'll still feel if I happen to pick up the book tomorrow (which I probably will, I re-read it as many times as I can).To me, when I read this, each and every time, I dont just read it. I experience it, I experience the bond between Scout and Jem. I simply LOVED Calpurnia, and the bond that Scout and Jem have with thier father Atticus made me jealous, wishing I had been that close to my father growing up (I was, and am, very close to my Daddy but not like that). I loved how Harper Lee has such a way of writing that I really felt like I was right there in Maycomb, and still do to this very day.Bottom line, you haven't read it, you must- at least one time, to experience this Masterpiece of a story, of a southern town with unforgettable characters, which deserves every single ounce of Praise that it's recieved for years on end and will recieve on end, for years to come, I'm sure.5/5 Stars. Come on, could you really expect anything less?


