1358553600
5.0
review/summary: &#34;Pride and Prejudice&#34; Winchester Austen Edition is a physical delight.review/text: This is not a review of the novel itself, (which is wonderful) but of the Winchester Austen Edition (henceforth WAE) of Pride and Prejudice, published by Word Press in 2007.After buying a copy of WAE &#34;Emma&#34; in Costco, I knew I had to have &#34;Pride & Prejudice&#34; in WAE as well. Here's why:-The WAE versions of Jane Austen's books are hardcover and physically comfortable in that they are printed on smooth white paper rather than typical beige rough paper and the typeface is solid roman type that is easy on the eyes.-The size is approximately 5X8. The corners of the pages are rounded giving it a soft look. The covers of all WAE, are completely black, except for the title and author and also have rounded corners. Attached to the back cover is an elastic band that goes around the height of the book and you can use this as a book mark or as a way to keep your book closed.-Each WAE novel has colorful inside covers depicting a scene from the novel and there are nice color drawings included in the introduction.-Each novel has at least three sets of notes written by Austen scholars. Most of the notes are the same in all the novels, but each novel has one additional note section peculiar to that novel. The notes that all editions have are a timeline in color of Jane Austen's world and a color map of Austen's England. In P&P; the additional notes is the illustrated Army in Austen's time.I bought used copies of WAE novels because even used, they are sturdy and comfortable. I am very hard on books by intention. I read while I eat, before I sleep, while waiting on lines, etc. But mainly, I like to embellish my books with beads, ribbons and lace, and even some rubber stamping on the white spaces in the text itself. I wouldn't have the heart to do that to an expensive hardcover.If you like the &#34;feel&#34; of books, I highly recommend the Winchester Austen Edition of any of Austen's novels. Let me know what you think.


