1347667200
5.0
review/summary: A literary accomplishment besieged mostly by the illiteratereview/text: Few books are polarizing; even fewer where a substantial number of the critics haven't read the book. SATANIC VERSES comes to mind; its author is still hiding from folks that would have him killed--a majority of whom probably did not read the book--at the order of their religious leader who declared it blasphemous. ATLAS SHRUGGED, a novel from the fifties, is a case in point.Great works of art--and great works in general--transcend authorship. Wagner was Hitler's inspiration, yet we listen attentively to his music. Henry Ford, who was inspired by Hitler, brought us automobiles with interchangeable parts, allowing an entire industry to profit. How many people drive Fords today?You may have been told that Ayn Rand was this or that kind of person. I am not going to prosecute or defend her or her philosophy, however, Ayn Rand's Book ATLAS SHRUGGED stands on its own. It is an epic and great love story with great--though perhaps not all that real--characters that develop and have great things to say. The book also has a message beyond simply "objectivism." It's about accomplishment in a hostile world. It's about the power of love. It's about irony. It is about parasites. It's about innovation. And it's frikkin' fiction.The main male character, Hank Reardon, develops a lighter, stronger, cheaper steel and is persecuted for it by lesser men. The main female character, Dagny, is a more competent manager than her brother of a major railroad. She sees in Hank the solution to her railroad. Hank sees in her the solution to his steel company. In theory, it is a match made in heaven. Mutually beneficial. All around them, however, are freeloaders, people who want to get value for producing none on their own. On the one hand that is simplistic--it was written in the late forties and early fifties when equal opportunity was assumed, but definitely didn't exist--in the real world, there are seven billion individual characters with complexities that cannot be portrayed. But from a storytelling perspective, it is about the difficulties inherent with being innovative, of being an effective and efficient leader, of doing more with less. Of accomplishment. And when one gets persecuted for it, well, the innovators will stop innovating; in fact, they go on strike. That is kind of silly on face value because innovators typically keep innovating in real life. But as fiction, as a love story between folks that each have and fill a need while being surrounded by folks that just take; well, it makes for great fiction.Ayn Rand was surely a strange gal. But she was an independent woman. A leader. A thinker. A change-agent. At least in ATLAS SHRUGGED it's the freeloaders that do the bombing and the hating and the parasitizing. Rand's personal life may have been a mess compared to others in the 50s, but ATLAS SHRUGGED is far more meaningful than, say, FIFTY SHADES OF GRAY, or other popular trash that one can buy today. And ATLAS SHRUGGED represents accomplishment in its own right. It took her three years to write the seventy-page John Galt soliloquy alone that begins, "I am the man who loves his life and I will not do penance for my own virtues." I think she spent seven or eight years in total writing this 1,000+ page work of fiction.ATLAS SHRUGGED, which I've read off and on a few times over the past couple decades is my ninety-eighth review here on Amazon.com. I am not selling ideology. I am simply recommending it because it is a great book. I am happy to discuss it at length. But if you don't read the book, or use it as a pawn in a larger game of politics--again, without reading it--then there's really no discussion to be had. That is not personal. It has everything to do with being literate, being able to think for yourself, and joining in on life's journey.ATLAS SHRUGGED is highly recommended... - lc


