1353456000
2.0
review/summary: Disliked greatlyreview/text: Reading The Great Gatsby in high school almost seems like an American rite of passage. When I read it years ago in high school, I didn't care for it. Actually, I hated it. But after seeing that title pop up over and over again among lists of the greatest novels, I wanted to try it again. Did I like it any more the second time around? Nope.First, there is the language. Most people will tell you that that is what they love about the book, that The Great Gatsby is the prime example of exquisite and beautiful language. Maybe it works for you, but reading Fitzgerald's words leaves me scratching my head wondering, "What is he trying to say?"Let's take a relatively unimportant line from Chapter 1 as an example. Fitzgerald writes, "Conduct may be founded on the hard rock or the wet marshes but after a certain point I don't care what it's founded on." Okay, what does that mean? I get the second half of the sentence - that the narrator doesn't care how one's conduct, i.e., one's behavior, is founded - that it doesn't matter whether you were brought up with great advantages or if you were brought up without them. But why hard rock? Why wet marshes? What does that mean? Hard rock? Wet marshes? Maybe you have a great answer for me, and I'm just not getting it. That's entirely plausible. But without a straight answer, I'm just left struggling. And this happens all over the place in this novel - words that conjure up images that float in the sky without any meaning to ground them.Second, there are the wholly unlikeable characters. What more needs to be said? The characters are wholly unlikeable. All of them.Third, through the narrator Nick Carraway, we are treated to a love/hate relationship with the wealthy class of the time period. We are to be in love, in awe, and in constant fascination with this one percent (to use today's language) for no reason other than the fact that they have lots of money. We are to be envious of and hopelessly attracted to high society. And although Fitzgerald paints these one percent characters as wholly unlikeable, he falls short of actually condemning their behavior. It's not a scathing satire. In the end, you still see the glimmers of attraction. And this, I cannot stand. I cannot stand the pathetic fawning over of the one percent. Cue eye roll. Get a backbone and find some self-worth. Please.Why two stars instead of one? My hatred of this novel bordered on obsession. I kept wondering why I disliked it so much. Those thoughts kept churning and churning in my head. And so, two stars instead of one, because evoking this level of obsession is worth something.


