1351036800
5.0
review/summary: The best 20th century classicreview/text: The Great Gatsby could be stated as one of the greatest pieces of literature. Everyone should experience the world of Fitzgerald's writing.Fitzgerald created the characters with distinct personalities. He lets the reader feel strong sympathy for each character. In contrast, some readers may believe the characters are too exaggerated and seem unrealistic such as Daisy Buchanan. However, I believe exaggerated parts are necessary for the interesting plot.Jay Gatsby could be announced as one of the main characters. His perseverance to love one girl for a long time is very admiring. However, his dream of reuniting with Daisy crushes when he comes back and sees her with another successful man. When the reader finds out of his struggle, the reader starts feeling sympathy for him and realizes that money cannot solve everything. It is depressing to see Gatsby hold on to the past, thinking he could re-live it. Gatsby's idealistic characteristic as well as his wrongful idea of money buying happiness wins favors from his audience as well as myself and teaches us a real life lesson.The theme that money does not buy happiness is clearly apparent. Gatsby's character progression portrays how money cannot always bring the most desired, finding happiness. He thought prosperity could get him what he wanted, a common mistake that people in the modern society uphold. Many of us think money is all you need, that fortune could bring us joy in this money-oriented society. Wealth could bring us happiness to a certain extent; it cannot buy values that can only be obtained through experience. When he comes back as a prosperous man, he is shocked by the fact that his absence had caused Daisy to be with another man.The story was full of ups, downs and un-expectancies with an irony, which kept the reader wanting to continue on to the next page. Everyone who has read the book already could happily agree that it is hard to find a stopping point due to its intensity revolving around the characters and the stories they create. The overall language Fitzgerald uses in the novel defies typical comprehensive characteristics of an intelligent composition by making the book easier to follow yet still containing a higher-level reading.


