1350432000
5.0
review/summary: Definitive Version of "The Hobbit"review/text: "The Annotated Hobbit" stands as the definitive edition to Tolkien's classic work. Douglas Anderson works from a simple premise - start with the final intent of Tolkien as can be reasonably determined and issue that as the main text, and then provide textual commentary, noting changes from previously published editions of the book, discuss possible sources and allusions, and frame characters, settings, and plot events in the context of Middle-earth and Arda at large.The book itself is a large, coffee table type book, featuring Tolkine's painting of Smaug set against the "Mirkwood" painting. Tolkien originally modelled the painting after a previous work, a color drawing, illustrating the elf Belg meetign Flindor (later renamed Gwindor) in the forest of Taur-na-Fuin. This watercoloured was first published in "Artist", No 54, and also appeared in the Tolkien Calndear 1974 under the title 1973. The back of the cover includes Tolkien's original description of "The Hobbit" from the original 1937 British edition.This edition contains Douglas Anderson's acknowledgements and thanks, Tolkien's "Preface to the Second Edition" and Anderson's extensive introduction to the book, and then obvioulsy the main text. There are two appendices: "A: The Quest for Erebor", "B: The Runes", then the Bibliography, and the Map of Wildernland. The introduction is an extensive essay on Tolkien, featuring information biographically and frames "The Hobbit" and its development and its sources in terms of its effects on Tolkien's mythology and also his writings for his children, even alluding to "The Oragog", an unpublished, unfinished story written by Tolkien in the early 1920s about a strange creature going through remarkable landsacpes. The intro also goes into detail regarding the composition of "The Hobbit", includes a facsimile of a page from one of the original manuscripts, and goes through the processes that led to the publication of the book, and also gives us extensive information on the revision history of the book as well as various foreign editions.The format of the book goes like this: there is the main text aligned so that is a large amount of white space on the left side of the left page, and the right side of the right page. [, with different sections of the text unobtrusively numbered at the end of the respective sentences. Then, onnumerall ]Different sections of the text unobtrusively numbered at the end of the respective sentences, with the annotations appearing on the aforementioned white space made available. The format works wonderfully as you can read the text uninterrupted and only refer to the annotations if you so desire. Unlike the 1988 edition of "The Annotated Hobbit", the annotations are in very close proximitiy to the text under discussion, so you can easily just read the annotation by looking right next to the text and then continue, and (in most cases) not have to flip pages and then return to the spot where you left off. Due to the length of some of the annotations, some [of the textual annotations] flipping will be required, but that is the exception, not the norm.Removing the textual annotations from appendicies in the 1988 edition and incorporating them in the main body of the book greatly assists in the ease and study of "The Hobbit" that this version actively accomdates and encourages. That is the key change between the original and the revised versions of "The Annoated Hobbit" in terms of format. In terms of content, there is not a lot of change, with one very significant exception. The second edition [also] features "The Quest for Erebor".Originally slated for publication in appendices "The Return of the King", this text was removed for considerations of space from the final product. The first text published was in "Unfinished Tales". Christopher Tolkien then published an earlier version in the 1996 book "The Peoples of Middle-earth", which was unknown to Christopher at the time of the 1979 "Unfinished Tales". The "Unfinished Tales" version is Text A. Then Tolkien wrote a typescript, Text B. Tolkien then wrote short, compressed version (most likely in order to retain this material in the final book). This is the third version (Text C).The version found in "Unfinished Tales" is an amalgamation of Text C with long extracts of B appearing after it, with Christopher's extensive commentary. The text in "The Annotated Hobbit" is Text B, which has never been published in its entirety before now.Although some previous reviewers have found this strange (which too me is odd, given the nature of annotated books), Anderson represents every single revision, and the original reading the revision replaced, in the form of annotation. Although some of these revisions are trivial, there is some highly interesting content present in the revision history of "The Hobbit". Most notably is the publication of the first edition version of Chapter Six, "Riddles in the Dark", where Bilbo first encounters Gollum. The first version radically differs from the 1947 rewrite that first appeared in 1951 and has become the definitive version of the chapter ever since. In the first version Gollum freely wants to give the ring away, and apologises profusely for not having the Ring to give to Bilbo after Bilbo wins the riddle contest, and shows Bilbo the way out in recompense for not having the Ring to give to him.Other interesting textual annotations are revisions where Tolkien brings consistency between his two major Hobbit books. He brings the geography of "The Hobbit" more into line with "The Lord of the Rings" (changing "One afternoon thney forded the river" to "a river"), and most interestingly changes the original 1937 reading "swords of the elves that are now called Gnomes" to "swords of the High Elves of the West, my kin". Tolkien used Gnomes as the name for the Elves tribe of the Noldor in the 1920s and 1930s, and associated iwth the Greek work "thought, intelligence". Tolkien stated he abandoned the name, because "it is quite impossible to dissociate the name from the popular associations of the Paracelsan gno-mus = pygmaeus" (Letters, No. 239). Both examples are from Chapter 3, "The Last Homely House". There are several more examples like this, including one where Tolkien changed "after the sack of the mines of Moria" to "after the battle of the Mines of Moria", due to Tolkien's changing conception of his mythology".Some more interesting annotations deal with the stone giants from "Over Hill and Under Hill", which never appear anywhere else in the legendarium, and likewise the older city upon whose foundations Lake-Town was built upon, likewise never elaborated on anywhere else. Also included is a previously unpublished poem from Chapter 3.In regards to artwork and various editions, "The Annotated Hobbit" includes numerous illustrations from forien editions of the novel, sprinkled liberally through out all ninteen chapters of the book. Due to space I won't list them all, with the exception of Josef Madlener's "Der Berggeist", a painting of an old man in a long hat sitting feeding a goat. Tolkien wrote on his copy of the picture that this was the origin of Gandalf.However, here is the artwork by Tolkien present, with page and chapter listed. I will also reference if the artwork appears in either "Pictures" or "J. R. R. Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator".Chapter 1: "An Unexpected Party"Bag End Underhill" - early pencil sketch, pg 47"Thor's Map - Final Version" - pg 50"Thor's Map - Early Version" - pg 51Chapter 2: "Roast Mutton""The Hill: Hobbiton Across the Water" - Early Sketch, 62,"The Hill: Hobbiton Across the Water" - Line drawing. 62. Appears in 1992 edition of "Pictures", No 1 left, and in "Artist" No 97."The Hill: Hobbiton Across the Water": Colour illustration. Appears in 1992 edition of "Pictures", No 2 left, and in "Artist" No 98."Sketch of Marching Dwarves" - pg 65. "Artist" No 103."Trolls' Hills": pg 68, appears in "Artist" No 99 as a coloured reproduction of the original drawing."The Trolls": pg 74, "Artist" No. 102, "Pictures" No. 2, left. A version colored by H. E. Riddett appeared in "The Hobbit Calender 1976" and "Pictures" No 2, right."The Three Trolls are turned to Stone" pg 81, "Artist" No. 108


