1345420800
2.0
review/summary: Interesting read but not much sound advicereview/text: I recently bought this book from my local bookstore, just because I thought it looked interesting but I think I'll be returning it. Some of the information is sound . like not nagging or being scary needy and that your more likely to get what you want if you're nice about it instead of bitchy and mean. But i think thats the same for both sexes not just men and is just good information in general. Its a treat others how you want to be treated type of thing.what I didn't like about the book is that the tone makes all men sound like jerks and basically says that women are always going to be the underdogs and have to manipulate their way in life because no one respects us enough for us be honest and actually speak our minds. She also uses bitch as a powerful term for a stronge women, which I didn't really enjoy and thought was kind of misleading. In my mind bitch is always going to be a derogatory term and we should start respecting ourselves a little more by not using it. It's kind of like using the term douche bag or fa**ot as a positive term to describe someone. I also didn't like how she wanted women to use sex to manipulate guys. Sex shouldn't be negotiated it should be something that a girl and guy wants and there should be enough respect on both people's part not to use it as a weapon. Women shouldn't be told that they have to ration sex or a guy won't respect them. They should be respected for being comfortable with their sexuality and enjoying sex when they want to have it and if your guy doesn't respect you for that then you need to find another guy.My boyfriend saw me reading this on the couch and he was pretty appalled he said no guy wants a bitch and that it was basically a woman's guide on how to use and manipulate men. It was just written using nice words so that people didn't see it for what it was. He also said that some things might be ok in the beginning but eventually ur guy is going to get fed up with you being lazy all the time and blowing him off so you can paint your toes and is going to look else ware for a quality girl that he can make a future with. He also said that guys are going to need a book called how to handle your bitch after girls read this and offered to return the book to the store for me. Lol. I think girls should look for a good guy and no really decent mature guy wants a bitch at least not for very long.


