1359590400
4.0
review/summary: Get the Dover Thrift Edition.review/text: Read: 1/13Rate: 4/51/13: Bram Stoker will always be famous for penning Dracula, and nobody knows what else he did in his life. That's his legacy. We have him to thank for the countless vampire pictures, novels, games, costumes, and whatever. Back to his original story, it is one of the greatest detective murder mystery novels written. Everything is told in a series of diaries, newspaper cuttings, monographs, and letters. There isn't a single non-epistolary account to advance the story along. Hence, the book is done ex post facto to piece the mystery together to allow the readers to understand how all of the epistles are interrelated. From the beginning, the readers will feel the prim Victorian naivety and prudishness surrounding the characters. As soon as the evilness of Dracula creeps in their way of life, the characters start experiencing death and decay, forcing them to change their thinking and accept the existence of unholy, hence the Gothic. It is almost a reverse of Christianity. That's why Dracula is a brilliant work for its unrelenting terror. However, the last 50 pages or so are tough to get through because it's literally a trudge to get to the climax. Sometimes, I've questioned the intelligence of these characters. For example, why leave Lucy alone when her room was first fitted with garlic? Obviously, it didn't work because nobody laid watch upon her overnight. Also, why did it take so long for the characters to kill Dracula? What took many days can be accomplished in a few. While Mina was describing her early symptoms, it was evident that she was becoming like Lucy even though she was made aware of what had happened to Lucy by reading the beforehand accounts of her transformation. Although Dracula claims to have "commanded nations," how can he be so stupid to kill rich, prominent English citizens? He should have, like all serial killers do, targeted prostitutes, bums, and degenerate winos to keep a low profile. All in all, despite the stupidities of the characters, Dracula is still an excellent read.


