1357084800
5.0
review/summary: A Child's Mindreview/text: I am sure others have said it more eloquently than I can hope to accomplish, but when I love a book this much I can not help but try to say why. Everyone loves different books for different reasons, and I loved this one because of the way it places you in a child's mind. A child who's mind is being stretched by the things going on around her, a mind that is struggling to make sense of the world. How on earth does Harper Lee capture us with a story about a lazy small town? How does she fascinate us with the everyday? I think that the voice that tells her story is the magic key. Scout doesn't have any prejudices yet; she is being molded by those around her. She argues with them and puzzles about them and finally makes up her mind about them. She carefully watches all that is happening, and though she only discerns half of it, the older reader can pick up on all the rest. Sometimes, though, Scout is the wiser. She reaches straight through to ways of seeing things we would have never found, and says things we never would have dared to say, because we understand all the implications, but she does not.I was reluctant to read this book, I must admit. I mean, the title doesn't sound all that appealing, even if you know it isn't really about killing mockingbirds. In fact, I think that made it even worse, because then I asked, "Well then, what is it about?" and the back of the book (I have the Warner Books edition) didn't tell me much, and all my Mom said was, "It's about prejudices in the south." Well, I felt I had already read enough about that, but the more books I read with that all-encompassing description, the more I find that there is more to that topic than I ever imagined. We are a very diverse people, on this planet, and we all seem to have a different way of looking at things, a different way of saying things, a different community of thought that shapes us. For another thing, this book is about more than one kind of prejudice, so even if, after that, you still feel that you have read plenty of material on black discrimination, that's still no excuse to not read this book. History books tell you the story from the point of politicians. This tells you the story from the point of the people who lived during that time in their own small town, only distantly affected by those all-important matters. It tells you what people thought back then, which is every bit as important, I believe, as the events themselves.I can understand the vague descriptions on the book covers. I'm not sure that I could do better. I also understand why everyone says you should read it, and I heartily agree with them. You really should not miss out on this one. I don't think you need a big study guide to accompany it; if the author thought it needed that, she would have written one herself. Just sit down in a comfortable spot and read it. That's what Lee intended. That's how you'll enjoy it the most. When you're done, see if your view of things hasn't changed just a little bit. Maybe you'll smile every time you see a mockingbird. Maybe you'll stop and think every time too. That's what I do. I hope you do too.


