1351900800
5.0
review/summary: To avoid this book is deprivation of knowledge, read on.review/text: Ayn Rand takes a hell of a beating in our society. Her ideas are riduculed far and wide. From Southpark to Family guy (I'm the younger generation this is what I know) she is treated with disdain and general dislike. Without hesitation, I can understand why. Some of the things she writes are almost absurd. We are not Taggart's and Rearden's. We are normal people struggling with our lives and trying to find happiness in our actions. If we were to judge one another based on Rand's conceptions we would all be condemned.Whenever I read her work though I cannot help but think about a noble vision. Her novels are ultimately works of fiction. However, I love to read them. The temptation of Atlas Shrugged is like warm cookies and a glass of milk to me. I think the story is incredible. The character development is superb. Yes, I realize that sometimes she can be long-winded, perhaps better editing was in order. Ultimately though I believe the positives to heavily outweigh the negative aspects of this book.I think it is CRUCIAL when reading her work, this book in particular, to be reading with an open and very critical mind. Her characters are stylized versions of our own lives (Fountainhead reference anyone get that) but that does not mean we cannot strive to be at their level. I mean this on a very subjective level. I see things in Hank Rearden that I admire and wish to emulate like his work ethic and refusal to compromise. Other things, his anti-social nature and flat out wrong beliefs at time I do not relate with. Apply the useful and discard the meaningless.I will never give up my imperfect friends and live a life of "perfect" solitude" and "no compromise" because of Ayn Rand. However, I will struggle to do my job better and be a person of integrity. I think that Rand, In Atlas Shrugged in particular, gives a very solid framework about how to achieve a diamond-solid belief in your own judgments and actions. If ever a person should say to you that you should doubt in yourself and offer your power to another person or institution, RUN!All of what I have said culminates in the next few sentences. I love to read Ayn Rand because I have a deep acceptance of who she is and why she writes the way she does. She came from a communist country and her disdain for it is evident in all of her work. I think, though, that if you can read her work and discard the irrelevant and make use of the good you will be a better person for it. I understand why people would read this book and dismiss it as sensationalist crap but I think doing so would be unwise. When I read Rand, I feel a strong belief in myself and my own judgments that little else in life offers me.Give it a chance. Read it critically and ask, how can I use this to better my life. That is what she would want.


