1354147200
5.0
review/summary: Nothing like what I expectedreview/text: I doubt there could be anything new I could add to the body of words written about WUTHERING HEIGHTS over the last century-and-a-half, or at least anything new that was pertinent. These hoary old classics such as WH or JANE EYRE or Thomas Hardy's output or Dickens along with hundreds of others have withstood the test of time for a reason, and although they may not be to everyone's taste, they won't need any help from me to keep their place on bookshelves. My problem has always been one of 'familiarity with a book's cover breeds contempt'. I've seen copies of WUTHERING HEIGHTS for about as long as I've been able to read; I've seen it so often there comes a point where I convince myself that I already know what the novel is, since I know (from dust jacket material) what it's _about_.WUTHERING HEIGHTS also suffers from the image of its film adaptations (none of which I've seen). Still, it's hard to have lived anywhere but under a rock and not have seen at least snatches of Merle Oberon and Laurence Olivier in the 1939 film, or any of the more recent remakes. Those glimpses have always made me consider WUTHERING HEIGHTS as a ghostly gothic romance, although it is really nothing of the sort. Instead it is a wildly fierce tale of obsession and revenge, implacably engineered by the monstrous Heathcliff, who seems more a force of nature than simply a human. And yet, the revenge motif - while guiding the bulk of the tale - is in itself only part of what constitutes the power in the novel. The mix of primal emotions and the veneer of civiliation together standing out in stark relief agains the unearthly backdrop of the moors suggests mythic archetypes in the mold of Tristan and Isolde. To think that this novel came from the mind of a twenty-nine-year-old 'reclusive spinster in a rural Yorkshire parsonage' (from Diane Johnson's introduction), is at once baffling and intimidating.For those readers who may have looked at this book over the years and passed by from a mistaken idea - as I did - that you already knew the contents, I would highly recommend taking a few days to actually crack the covers. While it isn't a perfect book, there's no question of its forcefulness, and even if it doesn't exactly strike your fancy, you'll know for sure why it is that you've avoided it. For other, younger readers, I would also recommend it as an excellent addition to your reading list. In my few years of reading, I don't think I've read anything quite like it.


