1350086400
5.0
review/summary: A Brief Reviewreview/text: Ray Bradbury wrote the novel Fahrenheit 451 in the spring of 1950, while living with his family in California. At the time that Bradbury was writing the novel, the surrounding society began to read condensed versions of books, not wanting to bother with thinking too much about the actual full-lengthed book. This little bit of information found its way into Fahrenheit 451 and is part of one of its larger themes that deal with ignorance and censorship.In Fahrenheit 451, Bradbury builds a futuristic environment in which books are degraded by burning, a method which enables society to achieve equality. The title is significantly chosen because it represents the temperature at which books ignite. The majority of the members of this revolutionary society do not want books destroying their equality; they hate to feel inferior to others who have read more books and have obtained more knowledge.One of the key elements that Bradbury stresses in this novel is "knowledge versus ignorance." In a society with no books, there is a better chance of equality among the people. If all the books are banned and then thrown into an incinerator, the envy and jealously of knowledge stops, which in turn makes society content. Because of this lack of knowledge and experience with books, the general public becomes consumed with technological advances, such as "Seashells" which are described as electronic devices, situated in the ear, that speak directly to the user. Books are burned in answer to differing opinions. If no one reads books, then no one can be offended by what the books have printed in them. It is all a systematically planned structure to endorse "sameness" among the members of society.Montag enjoys burning books until he meets his neighbor, Clarisse McClellan, who gives Montag a shove towards a new way of believing. She does not fall victim to the censored society norms and views the world from a different perspective, playing a key role in enhancing the plot. She is described as having "odd habits" which often times included nature, spending time by herself, and asking questions; all activities which were frowned upon by other members of the community. Clarisse tragically gets hit by a high-speed car and dies, only encouraging the idea that Montag's life needed rearranging. After all, Clarisse was the first one to ask if Montag was really happy in life and only after her tragic death does he realize how unhappy he has become.Truth is what one has faith in. Montag begins to have faith in books and the knowledge that he gains from them, and so he commences to find his inner truth. Bradbury devotes a small section of the novel to the discussion of truths in the chapter entitled "The Sieve and The Sand." While Montag is struggling over what the books offer to him and what he reads, he has a flashback to a time when he was on the beach attempting to fill a sieve with sand to win a dime. With this task came frustration because no matter how hard he tried, he could not fill the sieve up with the sand. A similar situation arises with Montag in his present state; he knows that something good will come out of the books, but he just has a hard time "filling up the sieve," or figuring out what that something is. In a theological sense, the sand can come to symbolize the concrete truth that Montag desperately tries to find, while the sieve represents the intellect seeking a truth that is much greater, indefinable, and impossible to seize.Throughout the novel, Montag increasingly becomes estranged from his wife, his co-workers, and society as a whole. As he becomes more interested in books, he loses the common beliefs that tie him to the society in which he lives. No longer is he victim to the violent overthrow of nature, knowledge, and books. Montag is able to fight against his doubts and separate himself against the others in hopes of a better tomorrow.Montag stumbles upon a group of men sitting around a campfire, a fire which is comforting and inviting; a stark contrast to the fire that Montag is used to. Granger, the leader of the group, quickly welcomes Montag and describes the group as the "Book People." The group is part of a nation-wide network of people devoted to saving books. Each member memorizes a book and waits until the opportune time to tell the retained knowledge. Montag is given a title to remember and recite and thus is initiated into the book society. The novel ends with Montag's spiritual revitalization - own intellectual journey - and the complete destruction of the city due to the war that very few citizens were aware of. Bradbury leaves Montag and the "Book People" to revive the city and with hopes of a new society where books will flourish.The "Book People" are alienated from society in that their ideas and theories are different from the accepted beliefs of the city dwellers. Instead of burning books, the "Book People" acknowledge a book's worth and capture the words of wisdom in their memories. The members of this elite group live outside the city, on the outskirts of the woods or wherever the path of knowledge leads them, thus separating them from civilization.The futuristic environment created by Bradbury may have been influenced by society at the time, however, society may actually be slowly slipping towards this censored environment. Just like in the novel, modern governments now censor news and media to influence the opinion of its people. Internet sites like Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter are just a few examples. By promoting censorship and "sameness" you limit societies progression that is gained the knowledge included in reading. If this trend continues we may all change our names to Guy Montag and hope for the phoenix to rise from the ashes of our destructed society.


