1361145600
5.0
review/summary: Surprise and extra thoughtsreview/text: This novel was a complete surprise for me. First, I saw a movie on TV called John Carter. I thought it was great. Next, I noticed it was based on a novel by Edgar Rice Burroughs- of Tarzan fame? No way, I thought. So, when my family bought me a tablet for Christmas, I decided to look for it. At the ridiculous price of $0.00, I bought it. I am now on the third of his series of books. What is so interesting for me is that this series talks to the future in the same manner of Jules Verne or H.G. Wells. He published this first book in 1917 I believe. Flight was a very young idea back then. He deals with it in a very delightful and adventurous manner, along with other ideas that I am sure stretched the imagination. And that is the point. I was used to the idea of seeing Johnny Weissmuller swinging through the jungle belting out his Tarzan yell and summoning all his animal friends in the jungle to confront &#34;man&#34; and save the day. Here was a man transported to the planet Mars to interact with many types of beings and many forms of their beliefs. In a wonderful salute to parody, Burroughs alludes to human civilization and its beliefs and faith in those beliefs in a delicate manner. On Mars for instance, one creatures Heaven may be another creatures dinner! Read it and see.I want to add one entirely different remark. At a older age now, it is difficult for me to focus for longs periods of time on print. These tablets are something to consider. You can adjust the print size or font and the background you read it on. The Amazon Kindle Store is remarkable. When you download a book of choice it is delivered to you by &#34;Whispernet&#34;, which fantastically comes to you in less than a minute!!!! Most of these books are at reduced prices. I have a Samsung tablet, so I know the Kindle app works on it. I do really think taking a look at those Kindle Fires might be worthy of a glance. They are dedicated to this reading structure and I heard they do not make a bunch on the tablets. They are interested in making money on the Amazon platform. So, the tablets are well made for the money. I might have a look at one if mine ever goes to that &#34;heaven &#34; for tablets.


