1348704000
2.0
review/summary: So Much Potentialreview/text: I usually try to go into English classes with a sense of optimism about the reading materials, and they're actually not usually bad. I find myself finishing almost every book ahead of schedule, and liking quite a few of them. So when I found out we'd be reading The Picture of Dorian Gray in junior year of High School, I started it with a positive mind. It was a famous classic after all! However, in this particular case, I was disappointed.The Picture of Dorian Gray is a novel with far too much unused potential. It's about the adventures of Dorian Gray, an upper class young adult living in the 1890's. Dorian acquires a magical portrait that diverts all physical traces of sin from him to his face in the portrait, allowing him to commit as much sin as he wants and remain looking youthful and innocent (i.e., after his insults drive his girlfriend Sybil to suicide, his portrait develops "a touch of cruelty in his mouth" [pg. 91] but his actual face remains the same). He gets advice from other characters about how he should live life, and after following his friend Lord Henry's way of life (outlined in a little yellow book that encourages Dorian to remain vain and shallow) and living hedonistically and selfishly for years and years, he finally realizes how `ugly' his soul has become and launches an attempt at redemption. While it seems like there would be lots of action, I was disappointed at the lack of plot in general, and most of the book is actually rich people talking about human nature. Many of the book's lessons are taken from the obscure musings of Lord Henry, who acts as an outlet for Wilde's opinions, and while this is a decent way for Dorian to learn about life, I would much rather have read about him learning through experience as he traveled around doing something interesting. He could have been living a life of incalculable sin, and yet chooses to have sex and hang out in gardens smoking opium all day; not quite the worst decision ever, but not an exciting book.The lack of action isn't the only disappointing thing about the book. I constantly felt that Wilde was too busy sending messages to the audience to really give his characters life. Every dialogue read less like a real conversation and more like a (sometimes cryptic) scripted debate, and Wilde skips past something like twenty years' worth of Dorian Gray's character development (summarizing the slow corruption in one chapter). Other characters serve only to invoke development in Dorian, and no other characters show any significant development themselves, making the story just slightly distant. Wilde wastes space for the plot to talk about his ideas about human nature, crossing the line between novel and essay too much for my pleasure ("...you must keep your good looks. We live in an age that reads too much to be wise, and that thinks too much to be beautiful. We cannot spare you." [pg. 220] is a good example of Lord Henry voicing Oscar Wilde's opinion on not just Dorian, but on life, and the Victorian generation). Another book that actually balances preaching with plot well is Animal Farm by George Orwell; it manages to simultaneously deliver a message about communism and entertain the audience. If you want a book where it is mostly messages and the entertainment is scarce, Dorian Gray is the book for you.Well, why is the story so famous? Part of its reputation is due to its shock value concerning homosexuality. There were various less-than-covert hints at homosexuality and adultery, which, unfortunately, are no longer effective in the 21st century. Now that the president is praising gay service in the military on national television, it is hard to be amazed about having gay characters in a book, and so a lot of impact is lost on me. Besides these homosexual exchanges between Dorian and the other male characters, the book is fairly void of plot, and Wilde's reliance on shock value make it boring and harder to take seriously at this point in time, no matter how revolutionary his writing may have been back in his era.The book was short enough to read through without losing focus, and to be fair, Wilde's writing is always very elegant with a signature fancy flair. Many of Lord Henry's musings are interesting, and most of the dialogues are widely quotable. The problem is that the story is just a little bit too boring for me to consider it a book you would normally read for fun, and combined with the superb premise of Dorian's magical portrait, this book's plot was really disappointing.


