1356566400
5.0
review/summary: A Masterpiece. There's Really No Other Way to Describe itreview/text: 'A masterpiece' probably sounds like a clich&eacute; for this novel, but that is exactly what it is. From the start, one is captivated by the story; at times shocking, disturbing, but above all, amazing. After I finished reading it, I came to realize that it was a tragedy that Emily Bront died at such a young age, leaving behind her poems and this one, magnificent novel. Yet, even if she had lived long enough to write other books, this one would still have outstripped them all.The language used in the novel is lyrical and beautiful. Once you start reading it, you can understand why 'Wuthering Heights' is often regarded as the most successful poetic novel ever written. Emily was, after all, a poet, and I can't imagine how difficult it must be to write poetic prose and manage to do it right, yet this is what she has done. Her settings and characters are well described, and the plot is masterfully executed.As to the characters themselves, they are remarkably believable. We can identify with them in their struggles, their hopes and fears, and we feel the same emotions that they feel. Heathcliff is an outstanding literary figure, whilst Catherine, despite her faults, is and remains a classical heroine.Although there are many film and television adaptations of 'Wuthering Heights' (and a new one will soon be coming out), I am proud to say that I haven't seen any, and that I never will. The last thing I would like to do is spoil one of my favourite books with some trashy, messed-up Hollywood movie or television serial. I have a unique image of how I see the story and characters, and that's how it's going to stay.Simply put, everyone should give this book a try, even if they don't like classic novels. It has a thrilling plot, remarkable characters and beautiful language. Condemed when it was first published in 1847, 'Wuthering Heights' stands out today as one of the greatest novels in the English language.Highly recommended!


