1348704000
5.0
review/summary: The Great American Novel?review/text: I may be the only American under 60 who graduated from high school without having read Harper Lee's "To Kill a Mockingbird." I'd heard about it, of course; I knew there were characters named Atticus Finch and Scout (a girl), and that there was a trial involving racism. Unlike so many other classics I haven't yet read, however, this one was never "spoiled" for me, so when I sat down earlier this week to patch up the gap in my reading, I was coming to it as nearly fresh as possible, with only the vaguest idea what I had to look forward to.As the novel opens, the narrator, Jean Louise "Scout" Finch, professes to tell the reader how her older brother Jem came to break his arm at the elbow years before. It's a long story, and by the time the unfortunate young man suffers his injury over 250 pages later, not only Jem's arm but the complacency of a small Southern town will be shattered. The first quarter of the novel offers little hint of the drama that is to unfold; the plucky and precocious Scout, growing up in the early 1930s in Maycomb, Alabama, seems to have only the typical concerns of childhood to ruffle her otherwise tranquil existence: well-meaning but clueless teachers, her brother's occasional bouts of pubescent moodiness, neighbors and relatives who scoff at her tomboyish ways. Scout enjoys reading with her lawyer father, Atticus; spending time in the kitchen with her family's black cook, Calpurnia; and visiting Miss Maudie, an amiable neighbor. She, Jem, and their friend Dill, who comes to Maycomb every summer to stay with his aunt, enjoy acting out stories from their favorite books and attempting to coax their enigmatic, reclusive neighbor Boo Radley out of his house. Everything changes, however, when Atticus is assigned to defend Tom Robinson, a black man accused of raping a white woman, and accepts this assignment with diligence and zeal. Suddenly Atticus becomes an icon of his town's hopes and a target for its hatreds - and inevitably, his family gets caught up in the mounting storm."To Kill a Mockingbird" is simply wonderful, in every way a novel can be. Scout is a lovable character, whose equal parts innocence and precocity make her the perfect narrator for a story a more mature character might have been too world-weary to tell with such honesty. Atticus is one of the greatest heroes in fiction, yet there is nothing effortless about his integrity, and he never comes across as self-righteous or too good to be true. This novel is ethical and wise without ever becoming preachy, suspenseful and dramatic without ever becoming sensational, humorous without becoming silly, realistic without becoming cynical, uplifting without the slightest hint of sentimentality. In a day when "moral ambiguity" in literature so often means the absence of any real concept of good or evil, and "social justice" too often means seeing the world in (sometimes literal) shades of black and white, it's refreshing to see how neatly Lee escapes both pitfalls, populating her novel with characters not merely lovable in spite of their flaws, but basically good at heart, or at least striving for decency, while living in and partaking of a poisonous social order they've simply never thought to question.Books like this are precious and rare. If you've somehow managed, like me, to make it into adulthood without ever reading it, do yourself a favor and pick it up now. And if you're still in school, don't wait for it to show up on some mandatory reading list. Read it, as I did, the way it was meant to be read - for the pure, pure pleasure of it.


