1346112000
5.0
review/summary: No Cheating Allowed! I Wonder How Many Have Actually Read The Lord of the Rings In Its Entirety?review/text: Generally I am not a big fantasy fan, but I can't believe I waited all these years to read the complete Lord of the Rings. I finished The Hobbit immediately prior and it definitely is a must-read before starting LOTR. The Hobbit serves as a prologue and eases you into the world of Middle Earth, leaving you wanting more.It seemed as if almost everyone I knew said they had read The Lord of the Rings. Finally reading it myself, however, I began to wonder how many people had ever actually read the entire work. Tolkien's world of Middle Earth is so rich with such complex history and meaning that it takes a good bit of time and thinking to absorb it all. I finally came to wonder if many "readers" had actually taken shortcuts by skimming the text, or had simply watched the films and said they had read it. I did not watch the films until I completed the entirety of The Lord of the Rings, and I enjoyed the extended version of each film when I was done. They are terrific adaptations, but the material here is so deep and rich that no film, no matter how well done, can possibly do it full justice.The Lord of the Rings was always treated by Tolkien as being one book and not a trilogy. Having everything in one volume to me was the best way to go. Do not be put off by the size of the volume. A good writer (and Tolkien is one of the very best) will draw you into the story and will keep you engaged throughout. I began by reading 10-20 pages a night, gradually letting Tolkien build his world around me piece by piece until I was entirely consumed with the world of Frodo, Sam, Gandalf, Aragorn, and the evil Sauron, who secretly created "one ring to rule them all" to control all of the other rings of power in Middle Earth. The One Ring contains such absolute power that it corrupts and changes all those who come in contact with it, and must be destroyed for the good of all in Middle Earth.One of my big problems with fantasy writing in the past has been that of omnipotence. Since fantasy usually involves a new world with new rules and the catch-all of magic, an author literally can do anything in the story and get away with it. This absolute creative power, the author's own One Ring if you will, never corrupts Tolkien. Everything in LOTR makes sense and everything in the story "works" because Tolkien himself never succumbs to the power of this figurative "ring" by cheating the way some other authors seem to do. What's more, he ties everything in to a vast historical background so we as readers can see the logical changes and flow of history throughout the ages and the vast saga that is the world of Middle Earth.Tolkien's Lord of the Rings is an amazing work of the imagination and a triumph of the human mind. In writing it Tolkien did not cheat as an author, and neither should you as a reader. If you only skimmed Lord of the Rings in the past or have only watched the films, you owe it to yourself to make the time to go back and read it cover-to-cover. Take your time, read slowly, and fully realize the lush, vibrant, and unequaled world of J.R.R. Tolkien. Very highly recommended.


