1350432000
5.0
review/summary: Encourages Christ-like Characterreview/text: Spoiler Alert. Important details from the story are given.Uncle Tom's Example of "Christ-like" CharacterUncle Tom showed exceptional "Christ-like" Character by being willing to sacrifice himself for the benefit of others. He follows Christ's perfect example of laying down his life for others, as seen in John 15:13: "Greater love has no one than this that one lay down his life for his friends," and we see this manifested in Uncle Tom's life in four ways. First, he said he'd rather be sold individually than to risk the security of all the plantation slaves. Also, when Uncle Tom was offered his freedom, he surprisingly turned it down out of spiritual concern for his master. Third, he also showed great self sacrifice by helping a slave named Lucy although he risked punishment in the process. Lastly, he gave his life to protect two slaves named Cassy and Emmaline who were being mistreated by his master. Let's look at each of these examples individually.First, Tom showed Christ like character by being willing to be sold instead of all the slaves on the plantation. His master, Mr. Shelby, made some bad investments and incurred some debt. In order to pay off this debt, Master Shelby had to sell his best slave. Uncle Tom had been with him since Mr. Shelby was a baby and throughout that time Tom had been a very faithful slave. Mr. Shelby had given him a large amount of responsibility on the plantation. Because of this, Tom was more valuable than all the other slaves and was the only single slave of enough worth to pay off the debt. Although master had promised not to sell him, Tom responded in a self-sacrificial way: "Mas'r always found me on the spot-he always will. I never have broke trust... and I never will. It's better for me alone to go, than to break up the place and sell all." Uncle Tom was sold and sent away from his wife and children.He was purchased by a man named St. Augustine who promised as well to free Tom. Tom showed his Christ-like character by not taking his freedom unless his master Saint Augustine got saved. St. Augustine's daughter, Evangeline, had just died. St. Augustine wanted Tom to follow him wherever he went, because Tom and his daughter had been close friends, and St. Augustine was reminded of his daughter when he was around Tom. The benefit to this particular situation was that Tom had more close contact with St. Augustine, and he was able to talk to him at a much closer level. It even got to the point where St. Augustine almost thought aloud to Tom. Tom was, therefore, able to speak much easier to his master about spiritual things. When St. Augustine told Tom would be set free in a few weeks, Tom replied, "Not while Mas'r is in trouble, I'll stay with Mas'r as long as he wants me, so as I can be of any use." Earlier Tom had shared how valuable being free was to him; nevertheless, he was devoted to his master and cared about his spiritual condition more than his own comfort. Sadly, Saint Augustine died suddenly and Uncle Tom lost his opportunity to be freed. He was sold again except this time his master, Simon Legree, was a cruel and harsh man.When Tom was at Simon Legree's place, he showed tremendous character in a number of ways towards a slave named Lucy. While picking cotton, Tom helped Lucy, a feeble slave who was bought at the same time as Tom, by putting extra cotton in her bag while harvesting. Simon Legree gave orders for Tom to beat Lucy even though she had enough cotton in her sack. Simon Legree planned to teach Tom to be a slave driver. Tom refused to beat Lucy, saying "I beg Mas'r's pardon, hopes Mas'r won't set me at that. It's what I an't used to, - never did, - and can't do, no way possible." In reply his master beat him several times, then he asked if he would do it again. Once again Tom replied "This yer thing, I can't feel it right to do'; - and, Mas'r, I never shall do it, -never!" Tom was severely beaten for his refusal.The final way that Uncle Tom was able to show his "Christ-like" character was by giving his life to protect two slaves who were being mistreated by his master. The slave named Cassy came very close to killing her master because she was being mistreated. She asked Uncle to escape with her. He refused to escape, but he told Cassy and Emmaline to do so if they had a chance. They needed to make an escape, if possible, because they couldn't handle the oppression in a Godly way. In a sense, Tom was protecting his master. A chance for Emmaline and Cassy to escape eventually did come. It was not easy for Uncle Tom now that Cassy was gone because she was the only one that was keeping Simon from killing Tom. When Simon Legree asked Tom to give information about Cassy and Emmaline's escape, Tom would not speak. As a consequence, Simon became very angry and beat Tom to death. This shows Godly character by Tom; for he followed Jesus' perfect example of remaining Godly even to his martyrdom.Through these examples we see exceptional "Christ-like" character by Tom. I think Tom's character in this book really shows the benefits and peace that a true Christian takes part of in his walk with Christ. This really motivates me to take the Bible seriously, and to follow its commands, to grow stronger every day, as well as to follow Christ's perfect example as Uncle Tom did.


