1354406400
5.0
review/summary: Slaughterhouse Five Reviewreview/text: Joel Witt and co.AP LIT Group Book Review: Evaluate the WorkThe overall purpose of Slaughterhouse Five was to write about antiwar sentiments, covering the fire bombing of Dresden in Germany during World War II. Vonnegut himself said that writing an antiwar book would do as much about war as writing a book about glaciers would to stop their motion. With that said his overall writing style was different and at times unfamiliar. He would talk about the event and then fast forward or rewind in time about stories with a particular character and he maintained that style throughout the book. In the end his writing style helped make his point effective on why war is bad. It might have been easier to understand if perhaps he had spoken directly about the story the entire time with pre exposition and character build up like books we're familiar with, but his point was made and he did his job. His overall writing format was odd but when looking at the diction and sentence make up, the plot was easy to follow. He was able to be effective because his thoughts were simple.Vonnegut created a pattern when dealing with death, always closing his thoughts with "so it goes." This was a somewhat humorous and effective way to talk about an idea as serious as death. It essentially goes back to the theme of the story with the bombing of Dresden and the civilian deaths that occurred. His overall writing style, although different, was effective for making a statement. Vonnegut is able to portray the destructiveness of war through Billy who constantly switches from past, present, and future.Although it was written in an abstract manner Slaughterhouse Five magnifies the pointlessness of war and the atrocities that go along with it. His final quote with the bird "Poo-tee-weet" essentially was used as an analogy to war and that it solves nothing, which connects back to the antiwar theme. Vonnegut was able to make his abstract writing style effective in proving his point.


