1358985600
5.0
review/summary: Powerful Impact On My Lifereview/text: I read this book for the first time about 20 years ago, have read it twice since then, and have re-read favorite sections many times. As the child of &eacute;migr&eacute;s who escaped Stalinist Hungary in 1956, I was especially moved by the story and Rand's rallying cry against Socialist elements taking root in America. More than anything, I was swayed by Rand's philosophy and the use of the novel as a vehicle to communicate the tenets of this philosophy.Rand was born into a bourgeois family in Russia. During the Bolshevik Revolution, her father's pharmacy business was confiscated and her family was displaced. These early experiences gave her a lifelong hatred of Socialist/Communist ideals and helped form her belief in reason as the highest human ideal. She saw tremendous beauty in capitalism and the industrial marvels (skyscrapers, bridges, factories, railways) that were born of it.Atlas Shrugged, Rand's second commercially successful novel (after The Fountainhead), is a celebration of industrial achievement, entrepreneurial spirit, the individual drive to succeed, and the dogged pursuit of rational self-interest. The antagonists in her story all espouse a sympathy or passion for Socialist values and they are all set on milking successful enterprises and individuals, all the while denouncing them publicly. The story is elaborate and engaging, with protagonists that include - surprisingly - a pirate and a rich playboy.No question, selfishness is a virtue in Rand's philosophy, and the story in Atlas Shrugged makes this abundantly clear. Asked to put a political label on the philosophy, I would say libertarian comes close. If these ideas run very contrary to your thinking, at a minimum Atlas Shrugged will open your mind to a very different world view. At most, it will influence a complete change in some of your most cherished beliefs.Now that twenty years have passed, I hold family as my highest ideal, and collaborating with others to be more critical than ever to my own success. So Rand's philosophy and the story in Atlas Shrugged don't resonate as strongly as they once did for me. But Atlas Shrugged has been and will continue to be one of only a small handful of books that has had a profound impact on my life.


