1351382400
5.0
review/summary: An amazing emotional journey through lifereview/text: This is one of those literary classics I'd always known about, but never got around to reading till I was an adult. This book was well worth the wait. Perhaps I loved and enjoyed it even more as an adult instead of a teenager. It has all the hallmarks of the classic fiction I love--well-developed, rich, complex characters you feel like you're friends with by the end, a rich backstory for each character, wonderful historical details, a well-described historical backdrop that yet doesn't overwhelm the reader by constantly calling attention to the past era, an episodic structure instead of being plot-centric, the now-underused third-person omniscient POV, a slower pace that develops the story bit by delicious bit instead of racing from Point A to Point B within 288 pages, and a story focused more on characters than stakes, action, and some kind of formulaic three-part act.While in many respects, the world Francie grows up in has advantages over the modern world (a slower pace of life, valuing family more, kids who love reading from an early age, understanding the value of money), in many ways, I'm glad to know this is history. It was so emotionally difficult to read about things like the treatment of Francie's neighbor Joanna, a 17-year-old single mom who dared to go out in public with her baby and show her love; Francie being shamed out of the special gift of left-handedness by her own mother, and never questioning why her natural inclination was wrong; a doctor and nurse who think poor children are sub-human; teachers who mistreat students simply for being poor; and hard-working people having a hard time catching a financial break.Initially I was kind of disappointed that the pace picked up so much later in the book, going through important historical events and long stretches of time so relatively quickly, but I guess that it makes sense, since Francie was a teenager by then. Time seems to pass more slowly when we're kids, and then passes more quickly as we get older. I do wish there'd been more coverage of things like the influenza epidemic and World War I, but the purpose of the story wasn't to be a historical epic. It's a Bildungsroman about a poor girl and her family as they experience life during some historic times. The only really negative moment I had in the book was the part where Francie had an instalove of sorts with a young soldier. It just didn't seem to fit with her well-established character. I was glad when that storyline was over.It really strikes me how a book like this would have a hard time getting published these days, because it's so slow-paced and quiet, focused on character over action, doesn't really have a plot structure, Part II is the backstory of Francie's parents and grandparents, tells more than shows, and doesn't really have any stakes other than the Nolans wanting to get out of poverty. And yet those are the things that make it such a classic and wonderful book. This is the type of book that wasn't written for people with a ten-minute attention span. It was written for people who enjoy a slow, well-crafted story that takes us through the ups and downs of life with beautifully-written characters. It's not meant for people who want to be hooked in the first line or who won't read anything that doesn't have a lot of action or high stakes. I think this is going to be one of those books I remember in detail years later, as though I just read it for the first time yesterday.


