1361750400
5.0
review/summary: Second only to LOTR - Incredible story!review/text: IntroductionThis is a fantasy story written by J. R. R. Tolkien prior to the Lord of the Rings trilogy and sets the stage somewhat for the Lord of the Rings (LOTR). The Hobbit is not so much a prequel as it is a story set in the same fictional universe of Middle Earth.One interesting note is that the Hobbit took 20 years to write, while the LOTR trilogy took 16 years. What gives the stories such richness is that very fact. Tolkien took great pains to set the backdrop for each story.Book HighlightsThere are definite points of similarity between the two works. For example the ring that Bilbo finds is the same ring in LOTR that is known as the "Ring of Power". In the Hobbit, the ring functions mainly as a means of escape and evasion for Bilbo. It enables him to escape from the character Gollum for example. In the LOTR trilogy, the ring has grown in power and calls out to Sauron (its rightful owner). The ring in the Hobbit only seems to have the power of invisibility, given to the wearer. By comparing the two (LOTR and the Hobbbit) the ring is not dangerous to wear for Bilbo, but by the time Frodo is chosen as the ring bearer in LOTR, the ring places the wearer in great danger. It attracts the ring-wraiths (ghost riders that serve Sauron).(Warning Spoilers Below)Gandalf also figures prominently in the Hobbit. His function is to select Bilbo to play the role of burglar in the company of the Dwarfs. Their mission is to recover the stolen treasure that Smaug the Dragon had taken away from the Dwarf people. Bilbo is of course very clever and does help the Dwarfs out of some close scrapes. Gandalf helps the party out as well throughout the book. All in all, their mission is successful. They do in the end free the treasure and Smaug is killed by an archer in the nearby Lake Town.Book EvaluationI think the Hobbit is a very engrossing fantasy story. Tolkien pioneered the genre. It makes sense that he took 20 years to write the tale. The main characteristic of this type of book is its believability. It immerses the reader fully in the story. It immediately draws the reader in to care about the characters and the plot. Tolkien was without a doubt a genius and wrote with a very high level of skill. While there are some differences in emphasis between the LOTR and the Hobbit, the two stories do tie together well. I would say what would have improved the Hobbit is to have added some foreshadowing of the rise of Sauron and show the evil power behind the ring. Whether or not you might like to read in the fantasy genre, I would recommend this book to everyone. This is one of the best examples in this genre, and is well worth the read.


