1345420800
5.0
review/summary: Fiction, Philosophy, and Society: A cross between fiction and realityreview/text: I have read this book four times now. If you are a visionary and want to change the world in a big way, be it a new product, or just bringing society into the 21st century, then this book is for you. First, I'll say that I don't agree with everything Ayn Rand says here, and in some points, she overdoes it, and does not explain capitalism rightly (she prefers Laissez-Faire), but it's a good book nonetheless. Although she wrote this book in the 1950s, and it was set in the (then) present, this book is timeless. It applies today as it did back then.Before going any further, it has been said that this book appeals to Republicans (which I'm not) and that the rich they are referring to in real life are like the heros in this book. They're not! They're the moochers! These people who find themselves in the position of CEO on Wall Street or a major corporation are not the heros in the book who either invented a great new product (Reardon Metal by Hank Reardon) or want to improve a railway company, making it a first class company once again (Dagney Taggert). No, these people in real life that you read so much about are simply people who got advanced degrees in economics, got into a high position, and left with a multi-million dollar severance pay in which they did little or nothing during their tenure. For example, a CEO from Exxon got a $400 million severance package, while thousands of workers were laid off. A coincidence? I don't think so. No, these modern day "rich" who try to pay little or nothing in taxes are the moochers. Where are the productive rich? Those who invent and prosper? Those who contribute, with a first class product? Do you see any of these around?Okay, I got that off my chest, comparing Atlas Shrugged to the real world of today, and exposing these real moochers for what they really are.Now, as I've said, the real heros are a steel duke (Hank Reardon), a CEO who is trying to upgrade her family's railroad (Dagney Taggert) but gets stopped, by of all people, her brother; a pirate (Ragner Danneskjold), who only sinks ships and destroys industries who themselves steal from the rightful innovators, the above mentioned characters; an oilman, Ellis Wyatt, and of course, a mystery man whom everyone is asking about, John Galt.While the world is telling all these innovators that they have to share everything they have, and play by the rules of the government, which is slowly strangling these productive companies, the executives start to disappear, one by one, until no one is left, and the world is left not knowing what to do, thereby drowning in their own poisons.This is putting it lightly, and I don't want to spoil it for you, but the plot is interesting. Also, Ms. Rand brings up amazing inventions. A new type of generator that can take electricity from the atmosphere, ways to get oil from shale (sound familiar?), and of course, Reardon Metal, much stronger than steel.With all this, one's own imagination can start to wander as he or she reads this book.Of course, there is the philosophy of Objectivism, which is simply the virtue of selfishness. Now many of the conversations that take place in the book are philosophical discussions, or even monologues. Much of this is drawn out, and these areas require several readings (refer to Rand's book, "For The New Intellectual." They're all in there) but there are a few common sense items. When Hank Reardon's brother, who is a mooch, bitterly complains why Hank should be the boss of the house, Hank responds, "Because I'm the one who pays the bills." Something every teenager should think about before arguing with his parents. Also, Rand simply teaches that one thing everyone has to learn is to say "No!" when necessary.The book is long, there is a lot of philosophy, but the plot is good. I don't think society goes as far as Rand depicts it by saying that everyone exists for the good of everyone else, but looking at what we are facing today in real life, we could be headed in that direction.Also, I don't think money is the cure-all or end-all. But it helps!This book is definitely worth reading. Even if you don't agree with everything she says, read it anyway. If you can, get the hard cover edition, or a trade paperback. If you get the regular size, the print is extremely small, but if you can read that (I could at 17), more power to you.If you haven't read Rand, start with "The Fountainhead" and "Anthem" before going on to "Atlas Shrugged." It's worth it.


