1345852800
5.0
review/summary: Epic!review/text: Personal ReflectionsThis book review pertains to the kindle edition: this edition includes "The Fellowship of the Ring", "The Two Towers" and "The Return of the King" in one combined volume.Technically there are six books (two in each volume). Of course Peter Jackson followed each of the three books (listed above) for his film adaptation of this story.This was my second time reading this story. Actually the word "story" doesn't really do justice to it. It really deserves the title of "epic". It could be described as a modern day Homeric quest adventure story. I'm not sure I could say that it surpasses the Odyssey, but nevertheless, this work is a masterpiece of literature. It is not simply the writing style that is superb. It is also the fictional historical background of this work. Tolkien created a world from whole cloth. This is why it is such genius. While Tolkien may have used themes from other works of literature, he made this world from his imagination from scratch.What more can I really say about it? It is gritty, real, scary at times, full of hope at other times. The conclusion is exhilarating. The characters become real to us, the readers. They leap off the page in stark reality. From Frodo, Sam and Gollum to Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas, these characters reveal themselves to us as the story progresses. It is a delight to read about the insights of a particular character or the struggles they have. The decisions that they face require real courage. And of course they have real consequences. In their struggles, we see our own struggles, except on a much smaller scale. We are made to feel as if we ourselves would be brave enough to take the one ring and cast it into the fires of Mount Doom.The frailty of the characters makes us reflect of our own humanness. We too fail at times. We too are faced with daunting decisions that are life altering. Just as the world they live in is threatened by Sauron and Saruman, we too face our own threats. The one that most deeply affects us is our own sin. Our hearts deceive us. They make us believe that we are OK, when really we are not. Frodo knew his own frailty. Yet he also was driven by a higher sense of purpose, something transcendent. This is where the Christianity of Tolkien really shines through. God may not have a ring for us to destroy, but if we follow in the footsteps of Jesus, we will have evil that needs driving out. There will be enemies that need conquering (things like envy or greed).It is said that absolute power corrupts absolutely. It is true. Tolkien drives this point home with the metaphor of the one ring. The ring holds a great amount of power. The story is driven by the ring. It plays on our understanding of our own human nature. The ring in the story must be kept at a distance and eventually destroyed. It always corrupts the possessor.Ultimately it was not the determination of the hero's heart that accomplished the destruction of the ring, but the providential role of Gollum. It was his greed that bit the finger off of Frodo's hand. It was providence that made his foot slip and caused him to fall to his doom. His time had come. There was a reason that Gollum was spared until the very end. I believe this providence reflects the providence of God.ConclusionMy conclusion is of course for you to read it. If you have only seen the movies, and liked them, you really owe it to yourself to read these books (or the one volume version). At least listen to them via audio book. You will find the richness of Tolkien's writing to seriously enhance your appreciation of the movies. The extended edition of the movie follows right along with every scene in the books.I would also recommend to you the background material in the appendix to the book. This will help to fill in even further the historical background to the story. Tolkien's preparation for this book really shines through here. It is the story behind the story. Before he wrote the Lord of the rings, Tolkien had to create this fantasy world from scratch. The amount of detail and realistic history belies the genius of Tolkien. You want to read good fantasy literature? This one is the standard by which others are judged. I don't imagine that it will be surpassed any time soon.


