1351728000
3.0
review/summary: Doesn't Quite Live Up To The Hypereview/text: I had long wanted to read this book, and my interest was rekindled after seeing the first movie. Having finally completed the task, I find myself feeling underwhelmed.I quickly tired of reading the endlessly rehashed philosophy. Every character was only too willing to launch into a pages-long exposition in the dryest professorial language. And after finally reaching the book's climax, what do you get? Yet another rehash--the longest yet to boot. This drains most of the entertainment value out of the fictional narrative surrounding the preaching. This is a shame, because I mostly agreed with the philosophy. Which made it all the more disappointing to find myself so thoroughly bored at reading material I was largely on board with.I was a little surprised, especially after reading that the author had grown up during the communist takeover of Russia, to see how lightly she treats the villains in her story. While evil, they are mostly inept, and entirely unfamiliar with the methods all historical socialist regimes have used to maintain control. The military and the police are almost unmentioned. It leaves you with a strange theoretical world where capitalism trumps communism (as it naturally does). But in the real world communism is held in place through the brutal application of force. I had a difficult time suspending my disbelief to the point of accepting the odd limp-wristed approach to control of Rand's government.The weird emotional state of the heroes also stands out. Sometimes they're like robots, or someone just replaced by the Body Snatchers. Other times they are overflowing with wild mixes of feelings that only make it to the surface in a glance or flick of the eyes that every like-minded character immediately understands perfectly. Yet somehow not a single character in the book knows exactly what they're feeling. You could make a drinking game out of the number of times a character literally "can't identify" the emotion they're currently experiencing. To be safe, you should stretch the drinking out over a few days.A much shorter, edited version would be a good thing. Maybe the movies will accomplish that. In a world hell-bent on ignoring the destruction wreaked by socialism across the globe, Atlas Shrugged could maybe help to open a few eyes.


