1354492800
1.0
review/summary: Not a Classicreview/text: I read this book thinking I missed something by not reading it going through school. I didn't. The premise is decent enough and may have even been more original when he wrote it. But the fact is he wrote it quickly, across the ocean from his editor (no e-mail or faxes in those days), and the book apparently didn't even get edited appropriately before publication (Fitzgerald was already a success by the time he wrote this).The result is something barely fleshed out beyond your basic plot outline. This is just the bare bones, no character development, no real insight into what is happening, just a string of events that come to what Fitzgerald must have thought was a shocking conclusion (although you aren't entirely sure how you got there - we don't really know how Daisy made her decision). The ride is great though. Page after page of poorly edited text that reads like stream of consciousness, first draft writing as opposed to a finished work. I swear at least once he used a word that isn't even a word. It was so unintelligable that in certain editions (before they went back to previous Fitzgerald drafts and corrected the mistake) a simple grammatical error meant that you could think Daisy was pregnant before marrying Tom. Such a small error actually dramatically changes how you interpret the key plotline of the book.This book actually was not a smashing success upon publication, nor immediately after Fitzgerald's death. No, it became popular in the 1950s as America became obsessed with class differences and simultaneously fascinated and envious of the wealthy. This was the first novel in that space by pure happenstance because there wasn't much interest in the subject when Fitzgerald wrote it. So being first to market in public schools eager to stoke class differences, it was widely used in schools and took off from there.Utterly skippable. The best thing you can say about it is that for only 150 pages of your time, you too can claim to have read a classic novel.


