1358553600
2.0
review/summary: Slaughterhouse-Five is overreatedreview/text: The first pages of the book introduce Vonnegut himself speaking to a friend about the difficulty of writing a book about the bombing of Dresden. Indeed, this is commonly considered Vonnegut's "Dresden book." For the life of me, I cannot understand why, as events relating to the firebombing of Dresden comprise about four pages total. Vonnegut the character apologizes to the reader for the difficulty of telling a story about war and instead offers a lame science fiction story about a man named Billy Pilgrim who becomes "unstuck in time" and experiences the events of his life out of order.It seems to me that Vonnegut was afraid to embrace a story focusing on his experience during the firebombing. He was afraid to attempt to capture the confusion, disillusionment, and otherwise intense emotions caused by war, as Hemingway so astutely did in A Farewell to Arms and For Whom the Bell Tolls. He was afraid to try and fail, and so he skirted around the actual bombing and immediate aftermath. Those events should have been the primary focus of the book, but were instead buried beneath hundreds of pages describing life in an alien zoo, adventures in optometry, and a sham marriage to an obese woman. Hemingway spent hundreds of pages describing battles and bombings; Vonnegut could have spent more than four describing an afternoon where a city's population all but completely burned to death.It's not as if the book is tensely building up to those four pages. Most of the novel is spent describing the mundane life of Billy Pilgrim, a character who, in defiance of most concepts of good characterization, does not grow or mature in any way. The reader receives virtually no insight as to his motivations. When he does speak, his interactions with other characters suggest that he is mentally retarded. Billy's inept actions and dialogue are so absurd that many times the novel left me feeling slightly ashamed, as if I was reading a Tucker Max story about a slutty midget and expected to share a derisory laugh with the author. In general, Billy simply drifts through life as things happen around him. Somehow, I doubt that this is a postmodern metaphor for the disillusionment of soldiers that is lost on me. More likely, it is simply uninspired writing.Vonnegut's irreverent prose did make me chuckle, but it was marred by one very odd stylistic choice. The author chose to insert the mantra "So it goes," after each mention of death in the book as a sardonic expression of fatalism. Used 106 times in 190 pages, the wit quickly turns to obnoxiousness. By the end of the book, I felt that I was listening to a child who repeats a single phrase over and over solely to irritate.Slaughterhouse-Five is a mediocre novel and does not deserve the acclaim it has received. I theorize that the novel's popularity resulted from a combination of Vonnegut's personal popularity and the postmodern and anti-war movements that were prevalent at the book's publishing.


