1348185600
5.0
review/summary: The metaphor that could come to life.review/text: This book is important because the readers need to know what happens when the government seizes upon cultural rot to take control of all information in a society. That Montag has no understanding of what is happening around him, but that he becomes curious is the catalyst for the events that happen.Even his own wife and loved ones turn on him, when the government decided to withhold its television based nightmare. Socially, I think this novel is one that all people can grasp today. What would happen today if the NFL or Baseball or College Football were interrupted? That is why presidents, and not just Obama, use those things as stages for their political events.Why is the government so intent on perpetuating things like political correctness in our society? That is because if you control the information, you control the people. If there are only a few actually curious people, then the government can marginalize them and destroy them. A whole society of curious people is not what the power brokers want. They don't want to answer questions, and they sure don't want people to insist on personal freedom as a point of personal identity.Fahrenheit 451 deals with all these. From the mysterious death of Clarisse McKenzie, to Montag's ironic job. And the punishment in the hyper-managed society is reserved for those who want to seek out knowledge. The metaphor put forward by Faber is also salient to our current time, by the time we meet him we find that the class of intellectuals will be bullied out of existence. Our constitutional republic cannot be saved by looking to the educated professors to save us, as they are all cowards. It is the people, the populace at large who needs to be educated. And remember, the country will keep itself ignorant because that is what the government class wants. They know, you don't need to. "Trust Us." is what they will say. It should make us recoil. The most dangerous words in the world: "I'm from the government and I'm here to help." They never do. And the people still sit by and let them destroy our nation.We need to teach this novel to all children. They need to know that their freedom depends not on the guarantee by the government but on their own initiative and their complete skepticism every time a government agent tells them they will take care of it. That includes teachers and school administrators. How far down the road to being Mildreds are we? I'd say farther than anyone would like to think.


