1344211200
5.0
review/summary: WHEN ATLAS SHRUGGED THE WORLD OFF HIS SHOULDERS: Another Look at Ayn Rand's Classic, 55 Years Laterreview/text: Atlas ShruggedTo better understand what is occurring in today's politico-economic climate, especially in Europe and the USA, a friend suggested I read Atlas Shrugged. In so doing I became aware that this classic was perhaps even more relevant today than it was fifty-five years ago. It is never too late to readjust one's pattern of thinking - his paradigm of reasoning. Ayn Rand altered mine to some degree. Case in point is this ingenious dramatization of a controversial social philosophy called Objectivism. I remember well the frenzy of public reaction when this book was first released in 1957 even though I was but a child.Ayn Rand is the pseudonym for one Alisa Rosenbaum, born in Czarist Russia, witness to the Bolshevik Revolution, student of Marxist-Leninist indoctrination. At first, her intellectual power helped her gain access to the highest institutions of learning but as the artificially altruistic ideal of communism took its natural path through Soviet society, her intelligence became a liability to the Dictatorship of the Proletariat, and she was ultimately denounced as one of the undesirables: a not-to-be-trusted member of the Intelligentsia. It was then that she made her escape to the United States of America and to New York City specifically. Her mind continued its relentless search for meaning as she examined firsthand the practical applications of capitalism in a free society. Her education continued under the flag of personal liberty.Drawing upon her real life experiences, she brought to her most famous of writings - "Atlas Shrugged" and its predecessor, "The Fountainhead" - an authenticity unparalleled by few other novelists of her time. The appeal of her writing is not just in the philosophical realm however. Her superior skill as an author causes the characters in her stories to take on real flesh. The reader is allowed to develop an intimate kinship with each lead, fully understanding the inner workings of his or her mind and the outward manifestation of such reasoning.The Great Minds of this world constitute the motive power for civilization: inventors, scientists, entrepreneurs, industrialists, business geniuses, revolutionary artists. They possess the brain power and motivation to make life better not only for themselves but for all of humanity. Such great minds, according to the author, are synonymous to Atlas the Greek god who supports the world on his shoulders despite the fact that the majority of those living on the surface of the planet tend to hate Atlas because he is, in their words, "an unscrupulous capitalist, a fat cat, a greedy rich man, an exploiter of the weak, a man living as a king while the poor wallow in despair, a man who has more money than he needs or deserves."Because of economic ignorance, Atlas is punished by a what is misnomer-ed a "just society." He is brought to suffer through taxation up to, and often beyond 50 per cent of his profits. Punitive regulations and controls are placed on him by corrupt politicians acting on behalf of their most vocal, and envious constituents - those whom Ayn Rand refers to as society's "looters.""Tax the rich" becomes a battle cry. Ultimately, Atlas the Producer reacts to the incessant attacks by throwing up his hands in despair and proclaiming in anger, "Why should I stay in a place where I'm not appreciated for all the prosperity and jobs I provide? Why remain in a system where I receive fewer and fewer rewards for my intellect and hard work?"At this point in my reading, I stopped and thought aloud: "So, that's why so much of our industry has been outsourcing to other countries!"Again... as I continued reading, another question came to the fore: "Can Christian doctrine hybridize with an Objectivist epistemology?" The religious training of my youth taught me that one of my greatest personal virtues is selflessness, not selfishness; and that a man's noblest pursuit is to fulfill the needs of the poor and disenfranchised of society. My church catechism teacher emphasized that such was the abiding philosophy of Jesus the Christ and that it was also required of me if I was to become one of his confirmed followers.Ayn Rand's moral position initially appears to be in direct opposition to such a code. The supreme hero of her novel is a genius named John Galt. In this quote from Atlas Shrugged, Rand's fundamental belief emerges in succinct and to-the-point affirmations: "I swear by my life and my love of it that I will never live for the sake of another man, nor ask another man to live for mine.... [I refuse] to be born with any original sin. I have never felt guilty of my ability. I have never felt guilty of my mind. I have never felt guilty of being a man. I accepted no unearned guilt, and thus was free to earn and to know my own value."Alisa Rosenbaum was keenly aware that the so-called "New Progressive Ideology" of her time was merely what religionists had called "the Old Lie" for centuries prior; and as such, posed a clear and present danger to the future of the United States of America and to all who pursue happiness through unobstructed productivity. Rand proclaimed that such success is best fueled by, what she termed: The Virtue of Selfishness. And... I tend to agree. Furthermore, I understand that her argument is not necessarily in contradiction to lessons taught by my beloved Rabbi from Nazareth. G-D spare me the lightning bolt if I'm wrong. As I said earlier: It is never too late to readjust one's paradigm of reasoning. Perhaps Ayn Rand, at this late date, has altered mine to some degree.


