1358121600
3.0
review/summary: Not very detailedreview/text: Good book if you have never read any first person account of the Holocaust, however, many of the experiences in "Night" are not very detailed and It may be because the writer was 15 during his time in the camp. Whe I say detailed, it's not meant in the graphic nature of what happened, but rather the thoughts and feelings that accompanied the experiences. True, there are "descriptions" of how he felt in losing family members, but with the exception of a few instances, many accounts are related very matter of factly. Also, the lack of description makes this feel like a "just the facts" of what happened book. For instance, when getting new clothing, he gets a striped outfit. It other books I've read, namely "Rena's Promise" (which was EXCELLENT and a far superior read), she describes what it was like to get old, used, clothing and was that a moth hole....no...it was a bullet hole. And...You get the point. It's much more descriptiove than just saying 'clothes'.I'm not discounting this book. There are several experiences in there that will stay with you and each person's story on what personally happened to them will be different.I do want to comment about reviewer alluding that this may be a work of fiction because of extreme coincidences. (Meeting a former prisoner years later on the streets of Paris and remembering a very brief encounter in the camp.) While there's no doubt that the author was in the camp, I feel that again, it is the lack of details in this book that fail to tie loose ends. For example, calling a prisoner a faceless one because he didn't see him, yet at the same time getting upset with him and "looking" right at him. But after looking at him, he still calls him faceless. Why? Was that the name that stuck? Was he in the infirmary bandaged up? Unfortunately, there is no answer.While I do believe that every experience is worth telling and worth reading, if you are going to read just one book on the subject, by all means make it "Rena's Promise". It is VERY well researched, well documented, and unlike "Night", when the book is over, you get to read what happened to some of the individuals after the war was over.


