1351382400
5.0
review/summary: Scary and beautifully writtenreview/text: If you love dystopia stories, I highly recommend this book. This is a beautifully written story that is as horrifying as it is intriguing. For it to be written in a somewhat narrow first person POV, there are so many insightful characters and vivid descriptions. It has an open ending though (it'll drive you crazy if you don't like loose ends!). I had so many questions after I finished reading it. Thanks to the Historical Notes, you're able to get a clearer picture of the things outside of the narrator's point of view so it's a complete reading experience. I took another day just to analyze it all and then read the Spark Notes analysis just in case I missed something. There's a ton of great talking points here and many ways you could interpret what *really* might have happened to our main cast of characters.My greatest fear before reading this book was that it would bash Christianity and religion. I am a Christian but I'm not a social conservative, so I left it on the shelf for several months despite the fact that I adore dystopian novels! I love its counterparts (Brave New World and 1984), too. I was pleasantly surprised to learn that Offred, our central character who is more passive narrator than swashbuckling heroine like her best-friend Moira, prays to God at one point in the book and makes it clear to the reader -- she knows this kind of oppression, sexism, racism, hypocrisy and stripping of human rights is not His doing. I was shocked to read that the Gileadans are so extreme that they were even against other Christians of different denominations like Baptists. This is an amazing book, but it's not without some really scary parts (SPOILER: The scariest of all being how they brought down the US democracy and originally blamed it on Islamic groups. It sounded so realistic, especially with today's Islamophobia). It makes you wonder what you'd do if America suddenly became Gilead and you were forced to live like Nick or Offred. Or in my case, if I were a Child of Ham smh.


