1351209600
3.0
review/summary: Occasionally Terrifying But Shallow and Overly Victorian Readreview/text: This is the book that started it all - the one that spawned a thousand vampire stories, from sublime (Nosferatu) to... the not-so-sublime (Twilight). But does the "original" (not really, there were other vampire stories written before this one) hold up after more than a hundred years?Well, yes and no. As a plethora of other reviewers have stated, the opening part of the book, detailing Jonathan Harker's journey to and stay at Castle Dracula is classic: filled with foreboding, dread and a genuinely creepy atmosphere. The rest of the book, while not as good, is still readable and the ending gets the job done. The biggest problem (if one can call it that) with this book is that it is very *Victorian* and very grounded in its time. Now, I know what you are thinking right now: "Duh, dipwad! It was written in the Victorian Era, that's why it's 'Victorian!'" Yes, but this is really, *really* Victorian. This book is so dripping with Victorian mores and attitudes that Queen Victoria herself, had she read this, would probably have wired a telegram to author Bram Stoker asking him if he could throttle it back a notch. The book is racist, a given considering the era - Count Dracula is an EEEEEEEEVILL foreigner that comes to England to corrupt good English womenfolk. Makes you wonder how paranoid the British were about foreign men coming to the UK and sexually conquering their women. Answer: apparently, very. But that's alright, because the evil Romanian Count gets a stake in the heart at the end for his troubles (I hope I didn't spoil the ending for all two you left unspoiled). The other main Victorian hang-up this book has is its portrayal of those English womenfolk: they are sweet, completely innocent virgins whom *everybody* loves... right up until they meet, well you know. Then they become evil, undead, bloodsucking SLUTS! And on a related note, while reading this book you will get sick to death of every male character proclaiming his undying (yet chaste!) love for the main female protagonist Mina Harker (and her friend Lucy before her until, well, she becomes an enslaved vampire concubine). You will become so inundated with syrupy praise for the woman that you will want to go out to the drug store after reading this to get a blood meter to test for diabetes.Understand that I am not opposed to reading something written in another era... if I were I would be severely limiting myself. However, many works of fiction (and nonfiction as well) transcend their age, even when they impart the attitudes and views of that age (some of which can be seen today as... unenlightened). My problem is that "Dracula" is so saturated in its age that it is difficult to see anything else. It also doesn't help that it is rather shallow. There is absolutely nothing deep here, unless one wants to count the whole science vs. supernatural thing. None of the characters really *learn* anything or change - "Dracula" isn't very effective dramatically. Again, I don't need heavy drama all the time, but even a light, fun read can transcend itself if the author can work some small dramatic development in there somewhere.In conclusion, you should read this... once. It does have some genuinely frightening and creepy parts that will impress you but its ultra-Victorianess plus the shallow, sappy treatment of its characters will mean that rereads, if any will be limited. This is not great literature. This is not even great Victorian literature. This is not even great fantastic or horrific Victorian literature. If you want that, if you want great Romantic literature with a touch of horror that's deep, has a philosophical core and a *truly* emotionally stirring story, get "Frankenstein" by Mary Shelley. "Dracula" is an occasionally well written popular Victorian horror novel - which while of interest to those studying the era in history and literature, and those interested in the history of horror - is of little value to those looking for a good read today.


