1346976000
4.0
review/summary: Reality?review/text: I never had to read 1984 in school. It was always referred to by teachers, but references were never enough to make my realize what the book was exactly about. The idea in my mind had been that the book was about an ideal look at the future of the world (America?) in 1984 (the book being written in the 1940's).Well, the idea wasn't exactly wrong, but it wasn't nearly the happy and bright world of the future I was expecting (lamely I was thinking Jetson's... go figure).So with a Kindle in hand, I decided I'd take it upon myself to explore many of the classics I never had to read as a student in school or even those I dismissed in the way the typical student with a narrow view of the world might.To start at the end of it all, the book was good. It was much better than I expected. Of course the idealized view of the world presented isn't the ideal we all want. It's a utopian world that is to the extreme of being dystopian because the requirements to idealize everything requires a type of world control that isn't as far fetched as it may seem.I don't want to go into many details except to say that the book is disturbing yet enlightening. If you have any awareness of the world around you, especially the world of the early 21st century, you'll see that many of the ideals aren't so far-fetched with our current world governments. Many of the catch phrases such as Big-Brother come from this book, and it becomes very clear what these ideas refer to. Of course the world isn't nearly so extreme, and I do think Orwell was exaggerating a viewpoint of what the world can be like. But in presenting the concepts in this manner, Orwell was hopefully making us aware of the slippery slope we may (now do) find ourselves in with respect to the perfect society.How close we are to what Orwell presented will depend on the reader. I can see parallels with our US government of the last 10 years, but then again I realize that to be as close as suggested would be quite pessimistic. Regardless of how close we may be, any reader should keep and open mind and awareness of what they learn from this book. This isn't the happy world I expected, and ultimately I found it a bit of a depressing world to think of.Yet, in the end this one book makes me really understand the importance of this book as a classic. This book does has its entertainment value, but its influence on the way we think and the awareness that comes out of the book is one that can't be dismissed. It's not a difficult read, and the more people that read it and become aware of it, the better off we'll all be, and the less likely the society ruling this fictional world will ever become real if we are in fact headed that way. And if we aren't head that way, be entertained by it.


