1350691200
5.0
review/summary: An Inspiring, Enduring Classicreview/text: To say I was pleasantly surprised by this book is an understatement. I was looking to get out of my reading comfort zone as a 48-year-old man. It more than lives up to its billing as a classic. I draw a parallel between it and "The Good Earth" by Pearl S. Buck. It just says so much about so many things over the course of the story (roughly set in the years 1900-1918).The commonality shared by this book and "The Good Earth" -- besides being a story that is told over a period of years -- is family and enduring times of hardship and poverty through hard work. Whereas Wang Lung (in "The Good Earth") was connected to the land (in China), young, lonely and intelligent Francie Nolan is ambivalently connected to her neighborhood in Manhattan.Both books show the cruelty of fate and other people (especially the young in this book) to the poor and downtrodden and both serve to educate the reader to different times. There is also a lot a dynamic perception of family in both.I'm used to more immediate, dialogue- and action-driven stories and wanting to change that is what drove me to this book.At times the story appears as if there is no plot or trajectory, but that is where Betty Smith's craft took over. All of the seemingly disparate events depicted over time fit together like a jigsaw, building and enhancing characterization of its literary denizens along the way. It leaves the reader filled with hope and the feeling of love -- again, something I'm not normally gushing about. Which says a lot about the quality of the book. It's filled with truth.If you are into superficial action books, stay away from it. If you want to look at a unique time and place and enlarge your literary boundaries, then by all means buy it. I don't think one needs to be a young student to get the most out of it, though it serves well in that capacity. I think one just should want to look into humanity and a different time and place (and the more things change, the more they stay the same). To be clear, I never thought I'd find a book of this kind nearly as good as "The Good Earth." This is right up there. Truly inspiring and poignant. I highly recommend it. It will stick with you.


