1354406400
5.0
review/summary: Hauntingly Poignantreview/text: There are no words to describe the emotions that I felt when I first read "Night". Distressed... haunted... ashamed... do not even begin to express the feeling of reading Wiesel. I had never known that 100 short pages could terrify me so much, but they did. This short book haunts me to this day.While the images that it presented were terrible and awful to imagine, they are not what pains me. The twitching foot of the child hanging in the gallows for protecting a man suspected of sabotage fazed me, but the utter hopelessness in Eliezer's voice as he answers "Where is [God]? Here He is-He is hanging here on this gallows..." (62, 1982 edition) destroyed me.This book describes the reason that so many in America today (and even culture itself) have rejected God. They cannot understand how an all-loving and all-powerful God could have allowed this. How could God just sit back and let this happen? Why did He not step in and deliver his promised children?The truth is... I don't know. No one knows. Those who say that they know are probably trying to something. What I do know is that God does exist. I know that He is all-powerful and all-loving. I do know that He could have stopped the Holocaust. I know that He could have saved Elie Wiesel from the despair and hopelessness of feeling rejected by God and of rejecting Him back, but He didn't.I could preach that God did this to draw people to reliance on Him, but that wouldn't do anyone any good. What I will say instead is that God wants these questions. He wants us to angrily call out to Him. He wants our confusion. As Moshe the Beadle says, "Man raises himself towards God by the questions he asks Him" (2, 1982 edition). God can take your questions. He can take your despair. The Bible promises that He will be your Comforter. He promises that He will turn your sorrow into thanksgiving, "To grant to those who mourn in Zion-- to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit; that they may be called oaks of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified." (Isaiah 61:3 ESV).


