1359331200
5.0
review/summary: I "loved" this book because it MUST be read.review/text: This book could easily be read in a couple of hours, if it were just a book. However, since this volume is the personal account of the Holocaust and is penned by one who has the gift of bringing the reader into his world, this book would be difficult to digest in one reading.After completing this read, this student found it difficult to find ease in his very comfortable bed. This discomfort had little to do with position, temperature, sound or level of darkness. The source of the discomfort is the aching suspicion that the atmosphere that created the possibility of the Holocaust still remains and is alive in these United States. Mr. Wiesel states that indifference to evil is evil. He does not hide his part of this apathy in the face of the "Final Solution" that Germany was bringing about in Europe. He speaks of denial and rationalization by he, his family and fellow towns people until the gates of Birkenau were closed behind them. To read this memoir is chilling in its clarity, call to compassion and the forthrightness with which the author tells of becoming an orphan, not just parentless.Mr. Wiesel was studying to be a rabbi when he was deported to the concentration camps in the Spring of 1944, in less than a year he was reduced to the barest of definitions of alive. His mother and youngest sister were killed the night they arrived in Birkenau, his father died 28 January 1945 weeks before the liberation of the camp on 11 April 1945 and he quit believing in God somewhere in between. What he saw and experienced would cause anyone to question whether God did exist and, if such was the case, was God still involved in Creation? The author speaks of unimaginable cruelty, inhumanity and loss. The reality that he survived is a testament to his strength of heart, to survive with the ability to write of this experience is a statement of the toughness he possesses.As a therapist, I was struck by the resilience of the human Spirit and the power one has to withstand anything. Repeatedly, Mr. Wiesel speaks of witnessing things that killed his soul, yet he writes of tenderness and joy (anecdotally) he found after these experiences. He was forced to march for days without food, this after being fed only thin soup and a slice of bread, if anything, for the months previous to this march, yet he survived. This reader was left with the impression that those who died (but were not shot or gassed) largely did not survive because they gave up that mysterious thing called "Will to Live." I have seen this same determination on numerous occasions in my practice, albeit on a much smaller scale. People who have experienced horrendous events but insist on celebrating life.As a theologian, I was stuck by the real questions raised by the experience of this man. Evil is real, how else can such events like the Holocaust, Apartheid, famine in a world that produces more food with better transportation than anytime in history be explained. The reason such evil exists and grows to such huge proportions is not God, but the choice we humans make: ignoring the good and keeping silent about the evil. This student is party far too often to the closed mouth bunch. It seems better to be included in "the Club" (whatever club that may be) than speak up and be counted among the oppressed. I hope reading this book has erased any comfort I found in keeping silent about wrong.Never shall I forget that night, the first night in camp, that turned my life into one long night seven time sealed.Never shall I forget that smoke.Never shall I forget the small faces of the children whose bodies I saw transformed into smoke under a silent sky.Never shall I forget those flames that consumed my faith forever.Never shall I forget the nocturnal silence that deprived me for all eternity of the desire to live.Never shall I forget those moments that murdered my God and my soul and turned my dreams into ashes.Never shall I forget those things, even were I condemned to live as long as God Himself.Never. (p.34)


