1359849600
1.0
review/summary: How trivial ideas become great in Americareview/text: I think that the biggest mistake which many Americans do when they analyze Ayn Rand's novels is that they don't research the roots of her views which are based on her personal experience of the revolutionary period in Russia. Socialists destroyed her dad's business. So Rand's views are a mix of a hostile reaction to the ideas of socialists + other influences ( Friedrich Nietzsche, Nikolay Chernyshevsky).Her views were not born by analysis of how the Western society works. They were formed already in Russia. Her bashing of humanism is the reaction to the pain which "humanistic" socialists brought to her and her family. Her logic was: socialists were extreme humanists, they fought for justice for all and what happened? They did a damage to me and my family. Hence humanism is evil. In fact, Marxism-Leninism basically lacked humanism accepting violence in order to achieve goals and was based on philosophical speculation ( communism was inevitable according to their "class conflict" theory).Logical chain: socialists are bad and they claim to be humanists -> hence humanism is evil -> if humanism is evil then it's opposite - egoism should be a solution->simple egoism is too mainstream ( boring!) hence it should be rational egoism, egoism par excellence->humanism is based on metaphysical matters, it smells idealism, hence objectivism aka materialism and atheism is a way to go.In fact in real life egoists are always materialists. You don't have to be a philosopher to find this connection. So nothing special in such observations.So why Rand's not so special ideas became so popular? The reason is that these simple cynical ideas were brought at the right time ( a fear of Communist threat) in the right place ( in the USA). At another time and in another place they would seem too primitive and obvious. But in the right circumstances they were given a green light.If you want to research the roots of aesthetics of Rand's writings you should read Chernyshevsky's "What is to be done?". In this novel you will also find a lot of common ideas with Rand's works, for example an idea of rational egoism is exploited there.Another famous Russian-American writer Vladimir Nabokov destroyed Chernyshevsky in his brilliant novel "The Gift". Nabokov destroys Ayn Rand as well because Rand and Chernyshevsky share the same viewpoints and aesthetics which were despised by him. Rand called Nabokov evil and said that she only read one and a half of his books. Which is a sign of big disrespect to Nabokov who was absolutely adored by Russian intellectuals outside Russia at that time.Nabokov was a tremendous individualist and elitist who cruelly bashed mediocrity. Nabokov was also a product of English influence ( Western civilization) who learned to read first in English and only then in Russian. His first nun was an English woman. It's amusing to see that Nabokov couldn't stand Rand who was a messiah of talent and individualism. According to Nabokov's standpoint Ayn Rand's novels are not Literature. They are an ideological junk.Ayn Rand is practically unknown in Russia. Only recently her novels have been published there. She is going to be perceived as an American author and she will unlikely be accepted favorably. Boring and outdated Chernyshevsky is enough for this kind of "literature" there.


