1359244800
2.0
review/summary: Painfully long propagandareview/text: I decided to read this as lately I've been reading more "classic" books, and I know Ayn Rand is often referenced in politics. Atlas Shrugged was by far the longest, most excruciatingly boring book I have ever read in my life. (And by "longest" I don't just mean page numbers, but that it took forever to read because it was so bad). I read a lot, and a lot of different things, but this book was absolutely dreadful.The story itself takes place in a "futuristic" (for the 50s) time and focuses mainly on Dagny Taggart, the heiress and vice president to a transcontinental railroad. Along with her, our other big characters are fellow billionaires Francisco D'Anconia and Hank Rearden, as well as her assistant/friend Eddie. Aside from them and one or two others, pretty much the entire world is nothing but freeloaders. The world economy is tanking hard, because the world has given way to a socialist brand of thinking. In this society everyone is "equal" and must get the same thing as the next guy, even if he didn't work for it. Achievement of any sort has lost its appeal, as anyone who is good at anything ends up being overworked, underpaid, and a cash cow to the lazy, freeloading masses. So we go through this story following the plight of the poor persecuted billionaires... Notice how those words just don't look right together?To begin with, this book is too long, and I mean WAY too long. It's over 1000 pages, and at least half of it could have been cut out or condensed and still made the same point. Heck, 2/3 of it could have been cut and it still would have made the same point! Its length made it so laborious to read that it's the most unpleasant literary experience I've ever had. This book is such ridiculous propaganda it's painful and almost insulting. It's pretty clear why this is the wealthy conservative's go-to book when they complain about not wanting to pay high taxes. Rand equates caring about someone's feelings or self-esteem as being a complete wimp and weakling. What's even more disturbing is that she seems to imply that anyone who does not think like her (i.e. Dagny and her friends) doesn't even have "real" feelings! It makes someone saying their "needs" or "rights" to something...which they very well might need, should NEVER be handed to them no matter how desperate they are. You know, because the elderly, disabled, ill and children need to work for every little thing just like everyone else! People who ask for help are just lazy, dumb freeloaders who want a meal ticket! It's disgusting how the book portrays anyone poor as lazy and incompetent. The morals of this book annoyed me so much I almost wish there was a society that worked like this while Rand was alive, just so she could see how it WOULDN'T work.Even with all this the book isn't ALL bad. Despite her appalling political opinions Rand is a good writer, but nothing that interesting happened in this story until 650 pages in. While I also must say I disagree with the morals presented, there are some valid points, such as: people often feels better about themselves if they've earned what they have, people shouldn't be kept on in a job or paid a high wage if they don't do well, people have a right to wealth they have earned, and competition is necessary for society to flourish. All in all, this book was a boring, unpleasant experience, and I only managed to finish it through sheer determination. It's got a twisted sense of values and a moral/point to the story that makes me want to kick it across the room. So...only read it if you have to.


