1350777600
5.0
review/summary: A great read, especially in the era of: "You didn't build that."review/text: Short answer = One of the best novels I have ever read.This book reminds of Napoleon Hill's "Think & Grow Rich" in regards to its popularity. They both seem to fall into 1 of 2 categories: 1) One is aware of the title and has read the book. - or - 2) Never heard of it.I listened to the audio version and then soon found myself searching online for quotes from the book. I am an avid non-fiction reader and rarely indulge in fiction. Nothing against fiction, I just prefer to use my entertainment time elsewhere (revealed later). I listened to the unabridged version (almost 63 hours = 2.6 days = yes,a long time) in less than a week, even skipping watching a few college football games. Something I would normally label as a sacrifice, for it is one of my few indulgences. However, as made pointedly in the book in regards to the meaning of "sacrifice," what I received in exchange was of greater value thus resulting in no "sacrifice."Some reviewers took issue with the flow of the material. Perhaps because I listened to the audio version, I did not find the style to be old fashioned nor difficult to follow as sometimes books are that were written in a different era. As one modern day reference indicated in the review title, there were multiple occasions when today's politics couldn't be helped to be brought to mind. I can accept that some label the novel's theme as "selfish"; however, I would challenge their perception toward its meaning. Just as I have changed my perception of "liberal" to be used as: that of one whom is "liberal" mandating others relinquish their efforts (time or money) for the sake of a cause before actually relinquishing any of their own.Should you pick up a copy of this book?This novel probably won't satisfy your need for fiction if "Twilight" or "Harry Potter" is what you are looking for. However, there are well defined characters, an intriguing plot and enough romance within "Atlas Shrugged" that would make for a great read by most as long as they probably weren't a committed communist. It may even provide a spark for those that are hesitate about taking a risk toward fulfilling their true purpose.


