1346803200
4.0
review/summary: A Sobering Warning Well Worth Readingreview/text: I think it would be safe to say that 1984 is a unique story. As far as stories go, it's hard to categorize. Generally speaking, 1984 fits into the fiction category, yet it rings eerily true. It could be called science fiction because of the prominent use of technology in the narrative (telescreens, rocket bombs, etc.), but this doesn't quite fit either. Is it a political treatise on the nature of dictatorships and their nature to suppress all free thought? Yes, that is true too, but even this doesn't quite get it I think.I suppose to get close to its heart, would be to say that it is a fictionalized political and philosophical commentary. While it is "dystopian and satirical" according to Wikipedia, and I would agree, it goes beyond this. Its focus is not on any particular dictatorship (although communist Russia comes to mind), but on political power in general. It could readily be used in a political science course. The lecture(s) could be called, "The philosophy of the dictator".1984 makes me think of Nietzsche's philosophy which included the so-called "will to power". The political genius "Big Brother" exercises his power over others to the ultimate extreme. His goal is not merely political suppression or suppression of free speech, but rather the conversion of the hearts of all so that they will love big brother for his own sake. Through reprogramming, Big Brother seeks unified thought and purpose.The story also reminded me of the movie The Matrix and the Borg from Star Trek. In each of these stories, the political elites (the matrix or the collective) use groupthink to accomplish their ends. Big Brother uses it as well. He required the control of language by issuing a "Newspeak Dictionary". To get everyone to think along the same lines was his ultimate goal. Those who could not adapt were eliminated because they were like viruses in the system. We see this issue in the film The Matrix. Smith says to Neo that the humans are like a virus that must be eliminated.Unlike the Matrix, where there is a hero, 1984 contains no hero. Winston is not even an anti-hero. He is a cog in the machine. It is almost a pointless story in that sense. The reader does not root for Winston, but only stands as an observer in dismay. It betrays the form of novel and the traditional story arc. There is no vanquishing of evil, no destruction of Big Brother. In this story the bad guy wins in the end. It is intended as a cautionary tale of what can happen to us if we are not careful. From a story point of view, I found 1984 unsatisfying. As far as its political analysis, I found it very profound. It was fascinating to read the ramifications of ultimate power.The commentary of O'Brien during Winston's interrogation, torture and imprisonment was right on the mark. The power structure of Big Brother far surpassed all previous dictatorships. Those in the past did not take it far enough. Big Brother had the courage to take power to the ultimate level. Big Brother intended to make himself a god to be worshipped. His thought would be the only thought. Groupthink would reign supreme.I would recommend reading 1984. While it will not bring a happy feeling to the reader by the overthrow of Big Brother, it is worth reading for its political and philosophical reflections on modern society. We would do well to heed Orwell's warnings regarding the potential loss of freedom. He warns us against the aggregation of too much power in government. Orwell has created a chilling tale that will make the reader reflect seriously on the proper role of citizens, of government and the importance of free speech.


