1358467200
5.0
review/summary: Tolkien's The Hobbit is a classic, and Inglis' narration is fantasticreview/text: I'll be honest. It's pretty much impossible for me to really review J.R.R. Tolkien's The Hobbit. Tolkien's 1937 prelude to The Lord of the Rings is my favorite book, ever, and has been ever since I first read it upon my father's recommendation when I was twelve. Since then, I've re-read it more times than I can count. However, with this read, I've done something new - I listened to the fantastic audiobook rendition read by Rob Inglis. So, I'll be focusing on that.Many readers, especially fantasy fans, are already familiar with The Hobbit, and even those who don't fit those categories are likely to know the basic premise with the recent first film in Peter Jackson's three part adaptation of the novel. So, I'll only briefly discuss the novel itself.The hobbit of the title is Bilbo Baggins, a well-to-do and - on the surface - boring hobbit of the Shire. To Bilbo's surprise, the wizard Gandalf recruits Bilbo to join exiled dwarf king Thorin Oakenshield and his company of twelve dwarves in reclaiming their home and treasure at the Lonely Mountain from Smaug, the terrible dragon who conquered the Mountain many years ago. Of course, even getting to the Mountain is no small task, and Bilbo, Gandalf, Thorin, and company have many exciting adventures.In Recorded Books 1991 production, narrator Rob Inglis delivers a masterful reading of The Hobbit. It's a rather challenging book, when one reflects that it contains dwarves (thirteen of them!), elves, men, goblins, trolls, spiders, wargs, Gollum, and a dragon, all with major speaking roles. Inglis does a fantastic job of giving each character a unique voice while also making them recognizable as one of their kind. No small task, that, but on top of it, Tolkien includes a great deal of singing and poetry in The Hobbit, and Inglis even sings like dwarves, elves, or goblins.This production was recorded a decade before Jackson's Lord of the Rings films and two decades before The Hobbit films, so Inglis never imitates the well-known actors when creating his voices but uses his own excellent interpretations of the characters. Inglis also recorded The Lord of the Rings for Recorded Books. I'm sure that will be excellent as well, and it's next on my listening list.This unabridged recorded of The Hobbit runs approximately 11 hours, and is a full telling the book as written, and not one of the various dramatizations produced over the years. As such a fan of the original book, I'm happy to have found this unabridged and well-narrated but not dramatized edition.I highly recommend The Hobbit as a novel to anyone, and am currently reading it to my children. Fans of The Hobbit or audiobooks will be very pleased with Rob Inglis' performance of the novel. The Hobbit is a classic well worthy of the name.


