1360368000
3.0
review/summary: Finally!review/text: Yes! I can finally say that I have read Dracula! It only took about four attempts. On each of my previous attempts, I never made it past Chapter Four. However, if I am going to claim vampires as my favorite monsters, I have to have read the book that started the phenomenon, right? I started this read-through determined to finish even if it killed me. I must admit that there were a few close calls along the way.Overall, Dracula is a decent read. Of course, the fact that it was originally published 115 years ago means that the writing style is completely different from modern works. Description is important to any book, but I run into problems with books that are overly descriptive - as Dracula is in places. Mina's description of her time in Whidby in Chapter Four is almost physically painful for me.The characters are well-developed which means that you come to care what happens to them. However, the dialect used for Doctor Van Helsing makes his passages extremely difficult to read, particularly when he gets long-winded. "The Count's child-thought see nothing; therefore he speak so free. Your man-thought see nothing, till just now. No! But there comes another word from some one who speak without thought because she, too, know not what it mean - what it might mean." Really?However, reading the book that launched the vampire phenomenon left me with more questions than answers. How did Jonathan Harker actually escape Castle Dracula? Why is it common vampire mythos that they cannot go out in the daylight? Dracula went out in the day whenever he wanted to. True, his full powers were only manifest at night, but he most definitely did NOT burst into flames in the sunlight. Also, why did crosses and communion wafers keep Dracula from entering an area, yet his coffins were kept in holy ground? What marked the demarcation between the amount of holiness that he apparently required and that which he could not tolerate? Inquiring minds want to know. At least mine does.


