1350259200
5.0
review/summary: Just to add my completely unnecessary review for the sake of itreview/text: I read this for the umpteenth time on the PC Kindle, and the formatting seemed fine to me, so maybe it's been sorted by now. Either that or I was so bedazzled by the story that I simply didn't notice any problems.A librarian once remarked to me, upon my commenting how few people were in the library that particular day, that if people had to pay to gain access the line would be around the block. This seemed to me to display a wise understanding of human nature.Just because something is free does not mean it is worthless, any more than there being a guarantee that something costing a lot is bound to be valuable. The reason this book is always free on Kindle is that it is long out of copyright. This fact alone shows that it has stood the test of time, along with Jane Austen's other novels.Many people shy away from reading so-called classic novels. They feel that they will be full of long descriptions or such dated language that the narrative will be impossible to penetrate. To anyone reading this book for the first time, therefore, the writing will be a revelation. It is perceptive and witty in its social commentary, and full of interesting, sympathetic (and sometimes unsympathetic) characters who remain forever in the memory.The story itself is the great-great-great-grandmother of all romances, even predating Jane Eyre, which so many people liken to Mills & Boon or Silhouette romances. The heroine and her hero are real, flawed people rather than cardboard cutouts. When you consider that Jane Austen's settings and characters genuinely reflect her own time (the late 18th/early 19th century), rather than being researched in modern times, there is added interest from both cultural and historic perspectives.If you have never read this novel, regarded by many as the writer's best, please don't pass on it this time. Not only is it a wonderful experience in itself, but it may open for you literary doors to other fascinating worlds that you have kept firmly closed until now. If you have already read it once, of course, this review is preaching to the converted, for you have probably done so several times, with its charms only increasing with every reading.


