1348272000
4.0
review/summary: Take Bilbo's tale on its own merit, a modern Classicreview/text: The Hobbit was intended for a young and innocent - but not naive - audience. The tone of the story is lighthearted, yet it holds treasures of imagination and character development well worth exploring.Though I am no Tolkien scholar, like any thoughtful reader who compares this story to his later work, the Lord of the Rings (of which The Hobbit is supposed to be a prequel) the differences in the Middle Earth of The Hobbit versus LOTR are several, but not irreconcilable. Hobbits are, for the most part, as hobbits should be and are expected to be; when tossed (or dragged as in Bilbo's case) into adventure they prove themselves quite worthy of the label "hero" in the most unexpected ways. But you'll not find orcs; here they are goblins. Elves are very lightly sketched, being either rather silly as they sit in trees and sing la-la ditties, or as in Mirkwood where they are more ominous, magical folk who toss unsuspecting travelers into dungeons without a by-your-leave.It's Middle Earth in its infancy, in my opinion, but nonetheless has special charm. I enjoyed the magical "talking" birds and the shape-shifting land of Beorn. The dragon is deliciously evil, though his part short-lived.There are powerful characterizations. Bilbo's growth into a true Heroic type is treated honestly, showing both his errors in judgment and self-serving tendencies, as well as his golden moments. We watch Thorin's descent into greed with a clenched heart of sympathy and horror as the fairytale devolves into all-out war among races. Death and destruction are dealt with head-on and realistically, and the reader feels the impact of it.The first time I read it, I barely noticed that there is a total lack of female characters in this story. As to why, who knows? I doubt Tolkien was being mysogynistic and more likely, the product of his own time - as I am of mine, when we do expect to see more heroic females in literature.Overall, it's a gem of a story, a modern classic for good reason, and time well-spent for the lover of Fantasy. And if you want to understand Bilbo's finding of the One Ring, you need to read The Hobbit.


