1357257600
5.0
review/summary: No matter how many times I re-read this, the first book is always so magical!review/text: The Harry Potter series has to be one of the most popular children's fantasy series, since CS Lewis wrote "The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe". Most people have heard of the series, and many have read the books and/or seen the popular blockbuster films.When the final book in the series, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, came out, I opted not to read it with everyone else. So now I am re-reading the first six books, before tackling the final book in this great series.For those not in the know, Harry Potter is just a boy, who is orphaned and is living with his unbearable Uncle, Aunt and their son, Dudley. He lives a miserable existence, where he is forced to live in a tiny cupboard under the stairs. However, his life is about to change. He finds out that he is in fact famous, and a wizard! Unknown to Harry, his parents died when they came up against the evil Lord Voldemort, and it was Harry that killed Lord Voldemort, with only a lightning bolt scar on his forhead to show for it. He is "the boy that lived". As Harry enrols at Hogwarts School Witchcraft & Wizardry, he meets new friends, and comes up against old enemies.This series is really wonderful, and the first book is exceptionally good. JK Rowling has created characters that everyone can relate to, and more importantly, everyone adores. Right from the first page you find yourself hoping that Harry will conquer over the evil Voldemort, and even over his ghastly relatives. The storyline is simple yet effective, and there are enough twists to make it a good read for adults, as well as children.I've re-read the first book several times, and each time I do I always remember how much I love this one. The whole series is great, but the first one is one my favourite. Its like taking that first delicious bite of a piece of cheesecake! Harry Potter is definitely one of my guilty pleasures in life.


