1360540800
5.0
review/summary: Review from my daughter SPOILER ALERTreview/text: Warriors: Into the Wild is one of the best books I've ever read in my life! It is action-packed, a little humorous, and there's a surprise at every corner. One of my friends introduced the book to me, and I'm glad she did for it's a real page-turner. At first, I was a little unsure if the book was suited to me because it seemed a little violent. But, I kept reading and I started to find that I love this book. I found some characters that I really related to. In fact, I love it so much that when I was on the first book my parents got me the next two books. I just started the second book and can't get my nose out of it. I love Warriors and I know a lot of other people who do too. ;)This story is about friendship, trust, and a little bit of war. It is also about trying new things, bravery, and not backing down. This story takes place in a damp, chilly woods that are not far from a person's house. In the beginning, a young a cat named Rusty is living with people at the edge of a forest. He meets a wild warrior cat named Graypaw. Graypaw convinces Rusty, now known as Firepaw, to join Thunderclan in a time of need. Then, Firepaw finds himself a full warrior and has lots of friends. Then, in a blink of an eye, Shadowclan is demanding Thunderclan territory! Firepaw and his Thunderclan friends are at war with Shadowclan. Though some die, Firepaw avenges them all. In the end, the leader of Shadowclan learns his lesson and dashes back into the forest.The main characters in Warriors: Into the Wild are:Firepaw - a young cat with a fiery spirit for adventure and is very trust worthy.Graypaw - Firepaw's best friend who is a curious cat and is also a warrior.Ravenpaw - also Firepaw's friend and warrior who is shy and frail but quick and powerful, though he had to run away.Spottedleaf - Firepaw's crush who is very beautiful and talented in nursing and taking care of kittens (a.k.a., kits).Bluestar - Thunderclan's leader who saw a warrior locked up in Firepaw's heart, yearning to be set free.Tigerclaw - a tough, serious, bold cat who loves to fight and has one emotion -- anger!Yellowfang - a black, shaggy cat who has attitude and was once in Shadowclan, but is now a Thunderclan medicine cat .Smudge - a black and white cat who grew up with Firepaw since they were kits but is not a warrior.I love this book, it inspired me in so many ways! I know a lot of my friends would love the action packed thrills of reading this book. I think that this book has perfect blend of these details: a pound of action, a dose of determination, seasoned with humor and you have the perfect recipe for a perfect book.


