1348185600
5.0
review/summary: Childhood Remembered: What Lies Just Beyond the Waterreview/text: Few moments of reading in my childhood meant as much to me, or stayed with me as long, as this one:"As they sang the hobbit felt the love of beautiful things made by hands and by cunning and by magic moving through him, a fierce and a jealous love, the desire of the hearts of dwarves. Then something Tookish woke up inside him, and he wished to go and see the great mountains, and hear the pine-trees and the waterfalls, and explore the caves, and wear a sword instead of a walking-stick."Growing up in the back country, I frequently slipped away in the afternoons to hold tadpoles in my hands at the pond or to run through the woods and crawl into the hollow beneath an ancient and dead tree, pretending I was hiding from giant birds, the wind from whose wings might have knocked over my parents' house. Or I would climb the hill and look out on the peaks of the Cascades, snowy and massive against the sky. What child has not dreamed of going somewhere far over the misty mountains cold?And what adult has not experienced brief moments of nostalgia and wonder -- of considering whether it might, after all, not be a good idea to dash from one's house or one's office without hat or handkerchief, to go slay some dragon or find a treasure? And what adult had not learned, as Bilbo does, the high cost of an adventure not taken and the high cost of an adventure pursued? Or come home at the end of a long journey or a fierce project to realize, as if for the first time, just how sweet a thing home can be?More than just a children's book, The Hobbit takes us "there and back again," into the adventure we long for and back again to our own hearth only after we've been provoked to reconsider both the costs and the rewards of going across the Water, of stepping outside one's home onto roads whose end we can't see.It's a beautiful novel.Also, the dragon is quite good.Dragons in stories don't often live up to our expectations, except perhaps in Pern. But this one is quite satisfying.If you haven't read this before, you're in for a treat. If you have, drop a comment below and celebrate with me. This book has quite a venerable age now! Yet it still feels young, and you might feel young reading it, and then perhaps older and wiser at the end. Or so I think; I am going to go re-read it now and find out. It has been a while for me.Stant Litore


