1344643200
4.0
review/summary: Puritan insights - and love all the extras!review/text: The classic psychological romance novel, "The Scarlet Letter," offers panoply of moral dilemmas that make the book influential today, but Nathaniel Hawthorne presents a detailed, if unfavorable, portrait of Puritan society in the 1650s that makes the novel engrossing to buffs of American History. The challenging vocabulary and obscure historical references make this story a bit harder to for today's readers to digest, but this classic is worth the effort to read.The Chamberlain Brothers edition from Signet Classics is loaded with extras. The ten page introduction from a professor of Modern Literary and Historical Studies at Union College gives the reader some insights into Hawthorne, and explains the Preface and The Customs House that precede the actual 24-chapter symmetrical novel. The signet version concludes with a short story, "Endicott and the Red Cross," which introduces the scarlet letter punishment and provides the basis for some early scenes to the `Poverty Row" movie that accompanies this book.The DVD of the 1934 production of "The Scarlet Letter" is a nice accompaniment to the novel, since it is largely faithful to it. A short afterword by a screenwriter, film producer, and teacher compares and contrasts the movie's adherence to Hawthorne's story, and provides interesting insights into the actors that star in the movie.TheCliff's Notes to Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letterserved as a useful companion to the story. Rather than lug around a dictionary to look up complicated words, the Cliff Notes made it easy for the reader to look up the challenging vocabulary in the story. In addition, the obscure historical references are explained in the context to the story. The chapter summaries were also useful, particularly in deciphering the middle chapters (9-11), which focus on the psychological battle between the two male main characters of the novel.Hawthorne's portrayal of Boston in the 1650s includes several real-life characters who were Puritan administrators, such as Richard Bellingham and John Winthrop. The Puritan Clergyman John Wilson was also a real-life character, as was the Puritan Missionary to the Indians, John Eliot. Even the character Ann Hibbins was the sister of Governor Bellingham, and was executed by the colony for witchcraft. Although Hawthorne's use of these real-life characters was a literary device to make his story appear more real, they also help the reader understand some of the important personalities in the Massachusetts Bay Colony.Reading classic novels such as this one help the reader obtain useful cultural details that the history books don't necessarily provide.


