1346803200
4.0
review/summary: creative narrative structure juxtaposed with a deep cynicism about war, death, and maybe everything elsereview/text: Kurt Vonnegut, the narrator, wants to write a book about the World War 2 bombing of Desden, Germany. He focuses his narrator on one soldier, Billy Pilgrim, who happens to time travel and was abducted by aliens for display in a zoo on the planet Tralfamador. Billy's time travel involves constantly slipping into different moments in his life. One moment he will be a prisoner of war in Dresden, the next he will be a middle-aged optometrist, twenty years later, and after he will be back in the trenches, pre-capture. This time travel is the basis for a non-linear narrative structure where the futility of the war is told in parallel with much other futility. The time travel aspect makes Billy an observer of his life, not an actor. (In consultation, the only other novel I could identify with a similar narrative structure isThe Time Traveler's Wife.) Vonnegut, through all this, teaches the absurdity of war, but the novel is also crammed with trippy tributaries: For example, Billy Pilgrim reads a science fiction novel about a man who travels back in time to verify whether the Messiah actually died on the cross or not. And in the zoo on Tralfamador, Pilgrim has a child with a Hollywood starlet.(This actually leads to the one inconsistency I found in the novel. The Tralfamadorians teach that human reproduction, in ways we do not understand, relies not on only a man and a woman but also on the existence of gay men, elderly women, babies who have died, and others. And yet, Billy and his Hollywood lover are able to reproduce on Tralfamador despite the fact that they are - as far as we know - the only humans on the planet. Perhaps a minor inconsistency, but otherwise everything seems to make sense, in its way.)Vonnegut - zikhrono livrakha - fought in World War 2, so he knows some of what he speaks. Ethan Hawke's reading of the audiobook is strong.Note on content: The book has strong language scattered throughout, and it has a number of references to sex although no graphic scenes.


