1348185600
5.0
review/summary: Fascinating first-hand account of a Holocaust survivorreview/text: The Hiding Place is an outstanding account of the wartime experiences of Corrie ten Boom and her family. Her family was from Holland. Life changed for her when the Nazis quickly conquered the nation. Corrie had a close family. Her father repaired watches and he was a Christian gentleman. Corrie had a close bond with her sister Betsie.The ten Boom family helped Jewish refugees the best they could. Unfortunately, the Nazis raided her place and took Corrie and her family members into custody. Corrie and her family were put into concentration camps. Corrie gives a richly detailed description of the humiliation of being stripped naked and having a shaved head. She suffered incredible loss as her father and sister died.One of the most interesting parts of her account was the fact that her faith in God sustained her and survived in tact during the most trying of times. She was forever touched by the way that her sister Betsie handled the grave adversity. Betsie reminded Corrie that God was present in the most dire circumstances. Betsie was thankful for the presence of lice because the soldiers did not want to get near the prisoners to disrupt their Bible studies.Corrie was able to find healing in the presence of God. She ministered to other victims of the atrocities of the Holocaust. There is a big contrast between her attitude and that of Elie Wiesel. Wiesel lost his faith in the midst of the horror and had a negative view in blaming God for allowing the tragedy. ten Boom's attitude is refreshing. She does not blame God for the atrocities. She realizes that people have free will and they chose to participate in the unspeakable horrors. God is not to blame in any of this.This is an excellent book from a literary standpoint. The text is well-written and the narratives flow easily. Corrie is a good story teller. She presents the lessons she learned spiritually throught the book. She gained wisdom and the empathetic ability to connect with those who are suffering. She reminds people that God is fundamentally good and he will help people through the worst tragedies. Corrie emerges as a triumphant overcomer rather than a perpetual victim.


