1344038400
5.0
review/summary: The Hunger Games of my youthreview/text: I remember when this book first came out it was ALL anybody talked about. At the time I didn't want to read it but recently I decided that I wanted to give it a chance.In the beginning I wasn't drawn into the book but it didn't take long before the story picked up speed. Before long I couldn't wait to keep turning the pages to find out what happened to Tally and her friends.The book is about a future post apocalyptic world in which people exist as "Uglies" until they turn 16. At 16 they get an operation to turn them into "Pretties". Once you get the op your life consists of little more than parties, fun, and being around people who are just as gorgeous as you are. Tally's best friend in the world turned pretty 3 whole months before she did and now she wants nothing more than to join him in New Pretty Town and be beautiful.Shortly before the operation Tally meets a fellow ugly named Shay. Shay is tricky and adventurous just like she is but unlike Tally, Shay isn't so sure that turning pretty is all it's cracked up to be. It turns out that she wants to leave before the operation and do the unthinkable: live as an Ugly forever. Tally is horrified and refuses to join Shay but it turns out that her troubles have just started. Special Circumstances give Tally an ultimatum: either find the secret society of runaway Uglies that Shay has joined or live as a disgraced Ugly forever.Tally is now faced with a difficult choice to make of either betraying the trust of someone she cares about or breaking her promise to her BFF about becoming a Pretty with him. When Tally sets out to find answers to her own questions she discovers a secret about the world she has always known that makes her question everything she's ever known about what it means to be Pretty.Basically the book may start out as underwhelming but it takes you on the adventure of a lifetime. By the end of the book I promise you'll be wishing you had a hoverboard to go zipping around the city. Tally is a completely relatable character because she's flawed. In so many books you find an unrealistically perfect heroine that readers cannot connect to but Tally's downfalls are what makes her such a well rounded leading female. Tally is rebellious and quirky but she wants to conform just like anyone else but she finds out that maybe being unique is better that being pretty.The way the book ended made me immediately pick up the next book in the series and start reading.


