1362009600
4.0
review/summary: 7/10 - It's okreview/text: Note: May contain spoilers. Proceed with caution.Recently I reread The Great Gatsby because I had some free time and it's been a few years since I read it back in high school. When I originally read The Great Gatsby I wasn't overly impressed by it, but I thought maybe it was because I was in high school. However, to my surprise, my opinion hasn't changed much. I wanted to like it, but the end result was just ok.The "main" character of the novel is a man named Nick Carraway. I put main in quotes because up until the end of the book his role, in my opinion, is pretty insignificant. Sure, he narrates the book and he arranges the tea meeting with Gatsby and Daisy, his cousin, but the character honestly feels like an empty vessel. One that you want to like because he's supposed to be the main character, but someone who feels genuinely unimportant. The same can be said about pretty much all the characters in the book. Gatsby, for instance, is probably the most likable. Everything he does he does because of his love for Daisy. Essentially the entire story is about Gatsby, but Fitzgerald doesn't take the time to properly flesh out his character, or any of the other characters for that matter. I think most of my distaste for the novel came from Fitzgerald's approach to writing.The novel is most enjoyable when we are going through the main story, but Fitzgerald constantly ruins the flow by having flashbacks right in the middle of the action. Towards the end of the book he starts switching back and forth so much that I found it difficult to follow along at first. Now these flashbacks are technically important because they give the reader some more insight into the characters, but they all seemed to be placed at the most inopportune time. Plus, Fitzgerald's style of writing during these sections changes dramatically from engaging to extremely dull.My biggest complaint has to be the way Fitzgerald structures his sentences. Maybe this was the way to write back then, but in today's world it's extremely uncomfortable. It isn't smooth and it isn't easy on the eyes. Instead of saying, "My favorite colors are blue, yellow, green, and red." Fitzgerald would put, "My favorite colors are blue and yellow and green and red." In case you don't believe me here's an excerpt from page 40: "By seven o'clock the orchestra has arrived, no thin five-piece affair, but a whole pitful of oboes and trombones and saxophones and viols and cornets and piccolos, and low and high drums." It's like the man never learned how to properly use a comma. Couple that with his insistent need to hyphenate everything, "to-night, to-morrow, good-by", and you're bound to leave a chapter with a headache or two. Lastly, Fitzgerald found it necessary to include an overabundance of similes and metaphors that felt both forced and unnatural. It's not a huge gripe like the commas or the hyphenations, but it's still there.The Great Gatsby is relatively short, only 180 pages long, and you could probably finish it in one sitting if you don't have any other obligations to attend to. However, I think this is what ultimately ruins the experience. Some books can pull off a short page count, but others, like this one, cannot. Had Fitzgerald stuck in the present and not gone off on tangents of the past it would have been fine, but ultimately these flashbacks ruin any chance of fleshing out the characters or properly building up the story so that you actually feel something at the story's climax.Overall Score: 7/10 - I know this is considered a literary classic, and for its time I'm sure it was groundbreaking, but in today's world it's simply mediocre. Nothing about the novel is necessarily terrible, and I never felt the need to close it, but I just feel like the story wasn't given the time it deserved to fully develop into something amazing.


