1344902400
3.0
review/summary: It's a philosophy on par with L. Ron Hubbardreview/text: I liked reading the book - it was fascinating in the way the characters seemed to be empty yet fulfilled I found intriguing for a book. As with any work, including ones of fiction, we ponder the world from their perspective on occasion.But, to suggest Rand was this guru of philosophical thought (while she applauded it - she also would have this smirk on her face that suggested 'the joke is on you' that I found less compelling as an endorsement of her writing as philosphy and more amused how her books came to draw attention. She was a smart person after all.However, the suggestion that Ayn Rands philosophy is NO different than those who follow the teachings of L. Ron Hubbard. Hubbard was a smart man who wrote great works of fiction - Rand & Hubbard sharing that in common. Rand and Hubbard developed intricate stories - of fiction - that they could talk about quite readily in the world around them. And, both Rand & Hubbard had a cult like dedication to books that when they were written knew their place(s) as works of fiction.The notion that Alan Greenspan would follow her work as a philosophy to guide his life and how he ran the federal reserve bank (something he later admitted, under oath before congress, was in error) has as much credibilty as a scientologist does in the assertions they make about theta units or ancient space races.That we are actually considering a person as a Vice Presidential candidate who has as a guiding force this 'philosophy' based on works of fiction would not be completely ridiculous until we stop to consider he wishes (as do others-as did Greenspan) precepts of these works of fiction to the lived life...to our, as the kids say RL "Real Life" is completely absurd. Those who think that's rational should never find themselves criticizing adherents of Scientology because you would be hypocrites for doing so.Again, a good book for the reasons I articulated above. But, ANY effort to take this work of fiction and apply it via some distorted sense of reality to how life should be is no different than the application of Hubbards work to Scientology. Frankly, that left me giving it three-stars as thinking the complexities of life can be housed in a singular authors work of fiction is disheartening.


