1360540800
5.0
review/summary: What Is Atlas Shrugged About?review/text: What is Atlas Shrugged about? Heroes! Like Tolkien's larger-than-life heroes that never take "No!" for an answer and always fight for the good, no matter how great the odds against them.But Atlas Shrugged does something that no fantasy novel does. Atlas Shrugged is about heroes that don't have magical powers. And they don't live in a fantastic world. No! They are just like you and me... or rather, just like you and me MIGHT and OUGHT to be.Atlas Shrugged will play on your emotions the way your favorite music can, or your favorite painting. If you want to be in love, you will feel the grandeur of that emotion. If you want to admire intelligence, creativity and ability, you will walk alongside people who will make you wish you could jump into a story the way you pass through a door into a magnificent cathedral.So why is Atlas Shrugged the most influential book after the bible? Because as Atlas Shrugged shows you a world of heroes and all that man can and should be, the story will hold up a mirror to your own mind and heart. It will give you the intellectual tools to shape yourself into one of these heroes.You've heard it said (in inspirational quotes) that each life is a hero's journey. If you are ready to forget what other people told you and to start your thought process with a blank slate, then Atlas Shrugged will show you (not lecture you) a way to live your life like the heroes of great stories; a way to make your life really count; a way to find happiness, purpose and meaning in your place on earth.It's a tall order, and there's only one book ever written that delivers a pro-life philosophy for man, here and now. And that book is Atlas Shrugged. But if you have the pure mind that can delve into this book and discover its wonder, you will never be the same again. You will start your journey on the road to becoming a self-made hero.It's not always an easy road to travel. But no other road will ever compare. So happy reading, and may reason be your guide.


