1360454400
4.0
review/summary: Accomplishedreview/text: My method for successThis was my second attempt at reading Moby Dick and the success of this second attempt is attributable to two things:1) Reading it on a Kindle2) Using the Moby Dick Big Read Along website [...]In regards to reading the ebook version of this novel, using both a dedicated Kindle and the Kindle app on mu iPhone made it incredibly easy simply for the integrated dictionary. The first failed reading of this novel happened when I picked up a lovely Easton Press leather hardback. I sat and cracked open the book and by the third chapter I realized I would be needing a dictionary handy. I never got farther than that in my first attempt and this second attempt was only made successful for not having to stop to look up the hundreds of archaic words. There were still quite a few that my integrated dictionary couldn't fin, but taking the time to look these up was far less damaging to the reading experience than had I gone with the print version. A word of caution: the free version of the ebook I read (ASIN:B004TRXX7C) had errors whenever it dealt with lists of numbers i.e. list of money valuations, weights, etc. Frequently the text was egregiously wrong with the first number in the list.Using the Moby Dick Big Read Along website was also crucial to my finishing this novel. This website was suggested by author Joe Hill as he commenced his reading of this novel. The site is dedicated to a free podcast reading of the novel with each chapter being read by someone different. There were only a few chapters I could not listen to (because of their style of reading) but on the whole, reading the ebook along with this verbal reading made the experience magnitudes better. There are times in the novel when it was not clear to me that a dialog was taking place, but the vocal performances made it explicitly clear. Also, Melville abuses commas and semicolons like a champ and the vocal readings made it much easier to find the flow of sentence than deciphering it out on my own. Added bonus is that there are a few celebrity readers such as Tilda Swinton and Benedict Cumberbatch.My experienceThis is a hard read but a rewarding one. Yet, I would caution the reader that if you're looking for a thriller - fast paced and exciting - this is not the book for it. There is action but it is far outweighed by the academics of whaling. On the whole, my experience with this book is to, at a very high level, say it is the grandfather of tales such as the movie Jaws. There's a fellow that knows all the biology of the animal (Hooper/Ishmael), a fellow that wants to keep everyone safe and kill the beast but not at the expense of his own life (Brody/Starbuck) and the fellow that will stop at nothing to see this beast dead by his own hands (Quint/Ahab).However, most of the book is dedicated not to the backbone of the Jaws storyline but rather to the documentation of whaling. Much like the book 20,000 Leagues Under The Seas, there are entire chapters (several actually) that take painstaking care in documenting the biology and happenings of the time - the anatomy of a whale, the various species of whale, the history of whale depictions, the process of hunting for whale, the process of dismantling a whale, the worth of whale parts (oil, ambergris, bone, etc) and exacting detail of the components of a whaling ship. It feels more like a biology lesson rather than a novel and in this day in age, it really made me wonder why anyone would go through so much trouble to hunt a whale. However as tedious as these parts can be, I found it incredibly interesting... almost as if it were a tome to a dying art. These sailors were the Deadliest Catch fishermen of their day and age. They suffered weather, rations, tediousness, physical hardship, sharks, and seclusion in hopes of bringing home enough oil to sell and receive their share. Many did not come home (or like Ahab didn't come home whole) and that was just part of expectations of such a hazardous profession.But if you can slog through those parts, the pay off is incredible. All that I knew about this novel (and that most people will hear about this novel) only takes place in the last three chapters of this 135 chapter novel. But the characters are so rich and interesting. The harpooners, Queequeg, Tashtego and Daggoo are my favorite characters because they are so different from anyone else. Ishmael, our narrator, is an interesting fellow himself. He seems to have a bit of jading toward religion ("I'll try a pagan friend, thought I, since Christian kindness has proved but hollow courtesy." p. 46) but in all other things seems to be a fair narrator by conveying more of what he sees rather than commentary about what he sees. And of course there is steady Starbuck and our mad Captain Ahab. Ahab is more of a brooding figure that does not prominently play into the action until well into the second half of the novel. Ahab has a singular determination for revenge. Above the profit of the ship, the lives of his crew and even above his own life itself, Ahab's singular purpose for this voyage is to find and kill Moby Dick. He is so tortured by his first encounter with the White Whale, that revenge consumes him to the point that he no longer wishes to live if it means he must endure Moby Dick living as well. It is an all consuming hatred that drives Ahab and that in the end costs him everything. It is proof positive that frequently, hatred consumes the person rather than the object of the hate.Similar to Ahab, Moby Dick himself doesn't make an appearance in the novel until the antepenultimate chapter. Much like the movie Jaws, you'll have to wait quite some time to actually see the monster in all his glory. In Ahab's obsession over Moby Dick, I found it intriguing that Ahab truly believed that Moby Dick can hold a grudge and have a single mind for attacking rather than fleeing a capture. Whales apparently normally don't attack with viciousness, yet this is exactly what happens upon meeting the unique creature.The short of it - if you want to take a shortcut, read just the last three chapters and that will get you about 90% of everything you've ever heard about this book. If you want the full experience, I would strongly suggest taking your time reading it and augmenting a print version with an audio version. It helps immensely.Popular CultureThe thing I love most about reading classics is it becomes clear that all works of art are somehow connected or based on others. Slogging through and enduring the bulk of the archaic and There were several instances of this in Moby Dick.On two occasions, the movie Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan echoed lines from Moby Dick. The first was when addressing his first mate Starbuck and the listening crew, Ahab confirms that it was indeed Moby Dick that took his leg. Displaying all his enmity for the whale, Ahab shows to what lengths he is willing to go to hunt down and kill him when he declares,"I'll chase him round Good Hope, and round the Horn, and round the Norway Maelstrom, and round perdition's flames before I give him up."- CHAPTER 36 The Quarter-Deck (p. 150)The second came at the end of the book. Ahab again utters a familiar quote. Similar to Khan, in his last moments of life, Ahab says,"Towards thee I roll, thou all-destroying but unconquering whale; to the last I grapple with thee; from hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee."- CHAPTER 135 The Chase - Third Day (p.538)The last pop culture reference I found in Moby Dick was a short but lovely song that the harpooners and sailors were singing on the Pequod - and it's because I first heard it from Quint in the movie Jaws:"Farewell and adieu to you, Spanish ladies!Farewell and adieu to you, ladies of Spain!"- CHAPTER 40 Midnight, Forecastle (p. 158)Finding these gems not only made Moby Dick more fun, but it also gave me an appreciation for the other works and characters who referenced the lines from the novel and in the case of Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, the depth of what they were saying by using these references.In all, I wanted the feeling of accomplishment for reading a classic that is so frequently referenced and I can say definitively that I have that. It was an amazing month long journey through a book that I fear will pass into unreadability because of it's archaic nature and we would be all the poorer for it.


