1358380800
4.0
review/summary: Really Goodreview/text: This book was a very good book in my opinon. This book is about Tally-a fifteen year old girl who is about to turn 16 and become "pretty". Becoming pretty in this civilization is a part of life. When you become pretty you get a surgical procedure to be a certian body size and new facial features. Tally is ready to become pretty and meet up with her friends who have already become pretty. She wants to be friends with Peris- the one best friend she had- again. Now that Peris is pretty and living in New Pretty Town, she is alone to pull tricks while she is still an "uglie" until she meets Shay- a girl set on running to the Smoak and not become pretty. Shay and Tally become friends in no time. When Tally lets Shay leave in search of David- the one person to take her to the Smoke- alone, she plans on becoming pretty once she is 16, but Dr.Cable- a Special Circumstances worker- tells Tally she either go look for the Smoke on her own or be ugly forever, Tally goes searching for the Smoke. Join Tally on her journy to the Smoke, the people she meets and what happens when the one thing she decides she does not want to happen happens. In my opinon this book was great. It kept my interest and was an easy read. Also the storyline kept moving with twists and turns along the way.This book starts with Tally as the trickster who can break into New Pretty Town without getting caught, to when Tally heads to the Smoke insearch of turing Shay and the other people at the Smoak over to Dr.Cable, to when she causes the biggest problem the Smoak has faced. I found that once I started reading, I didn't want to put the book down. I wanted to know what was around the next corner and where Tally would end up. I always thought I knew what would happen next but there were big suprises at the end. I also found the book to keep my attention whether I was around people or by my self, I didn't wan to stop reading until it was over, even then I wanted to start the next book in the series right away.The storyline progresses as Tally starts to think about how life will be after she becomes Pretty. How she wont have uglie problems and life will be a big party. The book changes as Tally learns new things about the place she thought she new so well. There are bigger problems that occure then what Tally initially realizes. As she meets people in the Smoke feelings and trust arise. Tally makes moves that she thinks are small and helpful but become huge and harmful, but the ending of the book is the biggest change you would expect Tally to make.In my opion this book gets a thumbs up because it was a book I really enjoyed reading. I would recomend it to anyone who asked me. I think you should definetly read this book.


