1347408000
5.0
review/summary: The 1931 Prophecy Has Come Truereview/text: Before I write the review, people should know that Brave New World Revisited is usually included in Brave New World. Even though they didn't specify that in the copy I bought, that was the case, so before you decide on buying both, get this one first to see if the other is included.I remember finishing this book while I was dropping down in Poland, and it dawned on me, "Oh my God, we are living in the Brave New World!" It seemed implausible to me that this was the case because Huxley wrote the book in 1931. That's 81 years ago. 81 years ago man! Do you know how long ago that is? He had no idea that the media would turn into the manipulating monarchy it has become; that we would be living in a totalitarian world, where the television announcers preach peace, democracy, and other hypocrisy, while the leaders of the world sit in their billion dollar mansions, sipping on billion dollar champagne, reveling in the unfolding of their master plan.I found it quite amusing that he called Mustafa Mond, one of the leaders of Brave New World, The Controller. I only realized the propensity of calling him such a name by the end of the book because he was literally in control of everything. What was most frightening to me is that he was in control of the information that the people could access. He knew about God, Shakespeare, and many other things from the "Old World", but in order to keep people subjugated and obedient, he deliberately chose not to allow this information to be spread to the general public. Don't you think that the real leaders of the world, the ones behind the iron curtain, know very well about a variety of things which good actually lead humanity to be liberated? "But how can this be?" you may ask. "That means that the world is being run by bad people!" Well, if it wasn't do you think there would be any form of war in the world?We are living in the Brave New World Huxley prophesied all those years ago, where the information we receive is controlled; where we, as Huxley put it, are content with our slavery. We have forgotten our humanity. We have forgotten that we are people, that every single one of us in a individual that deserves the utmost respect, and we have been conditioned to cling to the mass organizations because we feel a sense a completeness once we are a part of something. That is what they want. They want a group of blind sheep going wherever the road takes them, and not setting their foot down and saying "No! We want it differently!"It is a terrible state of affairs, and if you look back at the history of the world, you will see that any dissenter to the status quo has been silenced, crucified, and put down. When I say crucified, I don't just mean Jesus on the cross because he told the Jews they had it wrong. I am also referring to people like JFK, Martin Luther King, and John Lennon. Their voices were heard by millions of people, and they were starting to become a threat, so they were crucified by the murky evil men sitting behind the curtains. How dare I mention these "mere mortals" with the name of the "Lord and Savior" Jesus Christ? Well, read a little about the history of Christianity; the fabrications which have made us believe that Jesus was the son of God; that in order to be saved, we have to be obedient sheep and to turn ourselves over to Christ. This is exactly what happened in the Brave New World in Huxley's book: information manipulation and information control to keep the people obedient and domesticated. If you dig deep, you will realize that the only thing that Jesus preached was love, and if you dig even deeper, you see that even he said that all external ordinances are not only unnecessary, but harmful because the people who do them feel like they are exempted from performing acts of love. Open your eyes and see. All you have to do to see the truth is to let go of the beliefs you have blindly clung to all your life, and look at things with an open mind. Chances are, the beliefs you have today aren't yours, but were slowly seeded into your mind until you were convinced that they were yours if you really, really think about it.In my opinion, information control and information manipulation is by far the most dangerous thing in the world today. The mass media (including wikipedia) choose what you think. National Geographic documentaries won't tell you anything either, and CNN is probably the biggest horse show running in the world today (apart from the O'Reily Factor). In order for us to be liberated, it is essential that we start reading books. There are where the answers lie; not on Wikipedia, or YouTube, or a DVD documentary where the director has probably been told that he can't show a large portion of the truth because it would be too dangerous. Books. Books Books. Start reading. Whenever you want to know about a subject, buy a book about it, and even then, be skeptical. Keep digging. Dig deeper and deeper until you are entirely convinced by what you have read from different sources that what the authors are saying is true. There are far too many liars in the world today for you to be content with watching anything, so my advice to you is to open and book, and start reading.


