1356134400
2.0
review/summary: Overrated, annoying, futilereview/text: I had tried once to get through the first chapter of A Confederacy of Dunces before putting the book down in utter frustration. I stuck it out and read the whole thing this time, but still didn't care for the book. It seems the majority of the readers love this novel, but I really couldn't wait to be done with it. Virtually every character is unlikable and obnoxious to the umpteenth degree. The sheer obnoxiousness of this novel is difficult to bare. The author tries to make Ignatius as some sort of Don Quixote of 1960 New Orleans or antihero spouting his philosophies on Big Chief tablets, but it just doesn't work and comes across as rather sad and trite.One issue was simply that these weren't characters; they were cartoons. People commend the book for its dialogue, which they say is "real", but it felt more like a sitcom to me. And, much like an episode of Seinfeld, the dialogue and situations went in circles in A Confederacy of Dunces with little substance. Virtually every character behaves on the level of a maniac. Many of the other characters, seemingly caricatures, continually repeated the same cycle of badgering and belittling each other in the various episodes (Jones and the bar owner, Mr. and Mrs. Levy, Mancuso and the sergeant, Ignatius and his mother, etc).Yeah, I get it: it's a farce, comedy, satire, etc. Still, the ridiculousness of the subplots and the level of humor just made this novel feel cheap. The whining, yelling and general chaos was more of a chore to get through than entertainment. Sure, A Confederacy of Dunces might be mildly entertaining at points (I thought some of Ignatius' intelligent journal entries were humorous), but most of the humor is sophomoric. I vacillated between despising Ignatius and feeling genuine pity and sorrow at his pathetic, deranged existence.In final, this is a novel that really irritates more than entertains, which is a pity, because I had high hopes.


