1357776000
2.0
review/summary: If reading literary "classics," I recommend to skip thisreview/text: For the past few years, I've been reading a lot of "classics" (everything from ancient epics/mythologies/Arthurian legend/Matter of France to Chaucer/Shakespeare to Kant/Hegel/Kierkegaard to the 19th-Century Russian novels to Borges, Joyce, Woolf, Kundera, etc.), so I approached this work from a very literary perspective and with a reasonably solid foundation in literature. That being said, I am not entirely sure why this is considered a modern "masterpiece." The concept is okay despite being derivative of earlier novels (of which, as has been said elsewhere, "Brave New World" and "1984" are prime examples, though I think he owes a fair amount to Kafka as well (and, given the relatively prevalent fear of totalitarianism/tyranny throughout history, probably many others as well)), but the execution is unexceptional to say--er, type--the least.I find the writing to be sophomoric and unpredictable: sometimes flowery metaphors or analogies are used without real purpose, and there are several unimpressive "paradoxes" (x is on fire yet x is also cold, y is living but y is also dead, etc.) producing the illusion of depth. What makes such rhetorical language so jarring, however, is that it is almost randomly thrown into an otherwise concise and straightforward narrative, as if Bradbury went back and tried "spicing up" his writing by thoughtlessly peppering it with unnecessary metaphors. (For example: early on, there is a paragraph discussing Mildred's eyes as "moonstones," a poetical paragraph that was initially (for me) utterly confusing because it was totally unexpected and, considering the text within which it is couched, unfitting.) I can respect various registers and don't suscribe to New Criticism's imperative for self-contained organic harmony--I (eventually) loved "Ulysses," which is neither consistent nor self-contained--but Bradbury's changes of style accomplish nothing but confusion, distraction, and perhaps an occasional "how beautiful!" from readers admiring a pretty but misplaced sentence.While the characters aren't developed with any depth, I can respect this decision: the protagonist becomes an "everyman," the characters become symbols, the plot can unfold more rapidly, etc. Nonetheless, Bradbury is very heavy-handed with his symbolism and messages (even the ironic reversal of firefighters' duties is anything but subtle) and, despite the "think for yourself" message, it is almost as if Bradbury is a prophetic preacher telling you what to think. Thus, the novel lacks the nuanced depth of many great works of fiction. Likewise, the plot itself is presented sloppily and often seems contrived: a man who loves to watch books burn suddenly changes his entire outlook because of a few conversations with a teenager? (If the "loving to watch books burn" were written in free indirect discourse, then fine; Guy has hidden books in his house, slightly unsettled, but still *thinks* he likes burning books. But the narrative appears unilaterally third person limited.) Books must be burned, but there is no mention of paintings, movies, musical pieces, and other art/media, so what happened to those? How, exactly, did culture go from minorities/over-commodification/instant gratification to "we must burn every bloody book, dammit!"? Moreover, the dialogue is not believable--it feels unnaturally fast, especially Guy's interactions with Faber--and it seems artificial, tailored to further the plot even at the expense of conversational logic.While not always disappointing, overall the writing gave me the impression that it was written by a smart and overeager high-schooler, not a literary master. The book has its audience, but those expecting/hoping to find a modern literary "masterpiece" will be sorely disappointed.


