1347926400
2.0
review/summary: The Sex Ruined itreview/text: Doubleplusgood: If you haven't read the book it's worth reading just to get the many cultural references contributed to it. What makes this dystopia stand out is the importance it puts on language & how those who want to manipulate a cultural mangle their language against them.Ungood : Keep in mind I mostly enjoyed the book & think there is a lot of food for thought contained in it. The aspect that disagreed with the most was the relationship between Winston & Julia not at first & not in the end but in the middle.Spoiler Alert : Up till Winston & Julia sneak away into the woods I loved the book. After their conversation in the woods I almost put the book down because of how much it alienated me & I lost interest in the characters & author. Based on the conversation in the woods, I felt if this was their perspective about love then I felt there was nothing for me to learn or enjoy by sticking around. Luckily I hung around because of how much I enjoyed the book up to that point & was willing to give the story another chance.Here's the issue. Julia first contacts Winston by writing to him that she loves him, indicating that she had special feelings towards him. In the woods Winston wants Julia to admit that she just likes having sex for the sake of having sex & the more people she's done it with the better. Winston didn't want Julia to just want to want him, but to want men in general. Winston's speech may have been intended to get people to shake their heads in agreement but instead it made me dislike him for the first & only time in the book. It doesn't even make sense in the context of the story why would Julia tell Winston I love you & have since I first saw your face if she really is just wanting anything & anyone to have sex with. The motivation isn't there. If all she wanted was, sex why not just go with the willing upper party members she mentioned she knew would comply. I say that, in rebuttal to people who may argue she picked Winston because she may have guessed he'd up for it unlike people who were less likely to break the rules. Aside from it not making sense in the story I also had a difficult time relating to that sensibility or lack-there of. In the story's defense, it does seem like Winston grows found of Julia in particular & that he acknowledges they have a special relationship, & may have seen his comments in the woods as shallow or nave. Perhaps the story could have been improved if Winston later on reflected back to that conversation; whether or not he still agreed with his declarations, the more he get know Julia. Who knows, maybe I'm the only one who was so bothered by it. There is saying if you tried to love one woman solely, you've loved them all, & if you have tried to love all women collectively, you have loved none.Here's the issue. Julia first contacts Winston by writing to him that she loves him, indicating that she had special feelings towards him. In the woods Winston wants Julia to admit that she just likes having sex for the sake of having sex & the more people she's done it with the better. Winston didn't want Julia to just want to want him, but to want men in general. Winston's speech may have been intended to get people to shake their heads in agreement but instead it made me dislike him for the first & only time in the book. It doesn't even make sense in the context of the story why would Julia tell Winston I love you & have since I first saw your face if she really is just wanting anything & anyone to have sex with. The motivation isn't there. If all she wanted was, sex why not just go with the willing upper party members she mentioned she knew would comply. I say that, in rebuttal to people who may argue she picked Winston because she may have guessed he'd up for it unlike people who were less likely to break the rules. Aside from it not making sense in the story I also had a difficult time relating to that sensibility or lack-there of. In the story's defense, it does seem like Winston grows found of Julia in particular & that he acknowledges they have a special relationship, & may have seen his comments in the woods as shallow or nave. Perhaps the story could have been improved if Winston later on reflected back to that conversation; whether or not he still agreed with his declarations, the more he get know Julia. Who knows, maybe I'm the only one who was so bothered by it. There is saying if you tried to love one woman solely, you've loved them all, & if you have tried to love all women collectively, you have loved none.


