1358726400
5.0
review/summary: The Notebookreview/text: Although this is not the type of book I typically read, I thoroughly enjoyed The Notebook by Nicholas Sparks. This is a powerful love story about just how strong love can be and how when we find it, it becomes the most important thing. It is also about how we must not live our lives according to what others want for us.The main story told in the book is actually set in the past, being read by the main character himself. It occasionally flashes to the current day telling of the story, and in this way there is two stories being told. Because of this, the setting is a crucial aspect of the book. The current setting takes place in the present day at Creekside Extended Care Facility. The primary story takes place in New Bern, North Carolina 1946. The change between two different settings gives a very authentic and nostalgic feel to the story. The climax of the story is also unique in that it occurs in the current day setting, where most of the story does not. Allie has Alzheimer's, and can rarely be brought out of it. Although on this particular occasion, Noah, her husband whom she cannot remember, reads her the story of their life and love together she is brought back to him for a few brief, magical moments, remembering their life. The doctors say that the memories Allie experiences she should not be able to. It is a mystery to the doctors how this is possible. This special moment, along with when it occurs and how shocked the doctors are, emphasizes in a major way the strength of their love. It shows they have lasted together their entire lives and even broken laws of science and Allie's disease, truly emphasizing the powerful bond between them.I completely agree with Frank Wheeler on Amazon, that Sparks is very talented at writing a not too heavy, easy to read enjoyable book. He keeps his writing and story simple, and for the reason this book reads fast and doesn't loose your attention. It isn't a book you'd have reread to understand or analyze, but more for a little escapism.Spark's writing style was very sweet and simple. "He strummed once, adjusted the tension on two string, then strummed again. This time it sounded about right, and he began to plan. Soft music, quiet music. He hummed for a little while at first, them began to sing as night came down around him. He played and sang until the sun was gone and the sky was black." (Sparks 8). This quote from the beginning of the story describing a typical night of Noah's is very reflective of Sparks writing. Much of the content of what he writes seems to be almost cheesy or stereo-typical. This could come off as annoying, although Sparks does it in a way where it's still enjoyable; he's telling us the types of things we want to hear. He also keeps the vocabulary and sentences basic to make for an easy read.Yes, I would recommend this to a friend if they wanted an easy read, or something emotional. I personally ended up enjoying this book even more than the movie.


