1344297600
3.0
review/summary: err... philosophical overkillreview/text: (This review is written for readers of The Fountainhead who are considering reading Ayn's later and "more developed" novel.)I read the Fountainhead last year and was practically in love. The book was incredible; it had a fantastic plot, an exceptionally intriguing main character with oodles of depth and who was facing a brutal struggle. Also, it had architecture! Bonus. Roark's struggle in that book was something that seemed utterly triumphant; a colossal struggle, truly epic in scale, and for me an incredible experience in a book. Struggle being the operative word in that novel: it was evident on virtually every page.That all being said, readers of that book by and large found more to be said in the book's near-spiritual tones; by and large, readers seemed to respond to it as if it offered a liberating viewpoint extolling the goodness of being one's self, more free from the constricting over-regard for others that is often promoted in society. That's not really what Rand was going for. Ultimately, it is an important part of Objectivism and a core concept to her, but not *the* theme. As a generalization: if you didn't think Toohey was a HUGE character who consistently grabbed your attention and made you feel ill in The Fountainhead, I would venture to say you didn't quite get what she was going for.For this reason, Atlas Shrugged was written. It takes the main theme of the Fountainhead -- that struggle -- and makes a novel out of it. In my opinion, this is done at the direct expense of the characters. Atlas Shrugged has characters, sure, and they have backgrounds (though not quite as much as in the Fountainhead in my estimation, but close)... but their backstories aren't the point. It's about their struggle. A quick plot summary will tell you the details of the struggle, but this struggle is painfully evident. Painfully.I give this book three stars in a capacity that has zero to do with the novel's philosophy and everything to do with its dedication to making it way too clear. To her credit, this was exactly Rand's goal with this book. But if you enjoyed the plot and characters and the true depth in the Fountainhead, and that's why you're here, I'm not quite sure you'll be as satisfied as you might expect. Dagny Taggart is simply no Howard Roark. This book comes on too strong and way too bluntly. Repetition is present on like every other page. I get it. I understand. It's clear why this is such a "conservative" book (politically speaking) in a way that wasn't as painfully clear with The Fountainhead. I just don't like reading philosophical porn, I guess -- it's too explicit for me.


