1359158400
5.0
review/summary: A True Classicreview/text: What makes a book a "classic"? Is it the language? The fame of the author? The date of publication? Or, as my high school English teacher used to say, is a book a classic "because it still says what it needs to say"? In the case of Jane Austen's masterpiece, "Pride and Prejudice", I'd venture that it is all of the above. Though it was one of her first published novels, it's probably her greatest, and features some of the greatest characters ever written in what is quite possibly one of the oldest stories ever told.The plot itself is timeless. The Bennet family of Hertfordshire has five daughters, and with no sons and an estate entailed along the male line, it is important that the girls find good husbands if they don't want to be turned out of their home upon the death of their father. As is common in most families, each child is very different. Jane, the eldest, is quiet and serene, and always sees the good in everyone. Elizabeth is intelligent, while Mary is preachy and a stuck-in-the-mud. Catherine (Kitty) is a follower, and the youngest, Lydia, is an out-of-control flirt. The story begins, rather famously, with the arrival of new neighbors at Netherfield, a home a few miles away. The house has been taken by a young man with a large fortune, and almost immediately, Mrs. Bennet begins scheming that the as-yet-unknown Mr. Bingley will marry one of her daughters - preferably the eldest.As luck would have it, Bingley and Jane hit it off right away. The same cannot be said for Bingley's socially-awkward friend, Mr. Darcy, and Jane's sister Elizabeth. Almost immediately, the two get on each others' nerves, begun with Darcy insulting Lizzie within the hearing range of the latter and continuing as the Bennet family (with the exception of the two eldest) make fools of themselves at every opportunity. When a regiment of soldiers comes to town, Elizabeth is quick to enjoy conversing with a Mr. Wickham, one of Mr. Darcy's least-favorite people, and eagerly believes everything Wickham says about his former childhood friend.Of course, not everything is as it seems. Darcy and Elizabeth continue to meet over the course of the next year, while she is visiting a friend near his aunt's home, and even on his estate at Pemberley. The more they get to know each other, the more they realize they may have been mistaken about one another. And when Lizzie's youngest sister does the unthinkable, the Bennet family's misfortune may end up being the shove Elizabeth and Darcy need.The greatest thing about this book is its characters. Jane Austen was a master of the absurd, and she has captured it beautifully in the obnoxious Mr. Collins, the haughty Lady Catherine deBourgh, the foolish Mrs. Bennet, and so many others. Everyone is drawn to life, and as you are reading it, you realize that, even though the book came out two centuries ago, these are personalities that still exist in all of our lives. The dialogue is witty and to the point, and though the novel is relatively short, the action never lags. There's a reason the 1995 BBC miniseries adaptation clocks in at close to five hours; a LOT happens in this book. With the 200th anniversary of the novel happening this year, it's definitely time to take an enjoyable look back at one of the most famous - and well-loved - books ever written.


