1349049600
4.0
review/summary: Love, Lies, Mystery, and Maybe Happy Ever Afterreview/text: As many people may know, "Jane Eyre" is the story of an orphaned girl who has an evil aunt that locks her away in an eerie red room where her uncle died in. Being the protagonist of the novel, Jane breaks away from her aunt's oppression and stands up for herself. As Jane lives life away from her aunt, she realizes that the outside world is just as strenuous. Against many odds, Jane pushes forward with her life. She finds a job as a governess and falls in love with her employer and he loves her back, but of course with Jane's luck, more obstacles are hurdled at her.Being set during the Victorian period, social status already plays a big obstacle in Jane's life. When obstacles, though some highly unlikely, beyond social class prevent her from marrying the love her life, Jane must establish her own code of ethics. What is wrong and what is right? What can she do and what can she not do?The novel may seem to focus much on the aspect of Jane's love life, but there's much more to it than that. Throughout Jane's love story, there's always eerie things going on, for example the shrieking yell coming from a room no one is allowed in and that's just the beginning. "Jane Eyre" is a book that has many different aspects and a hint of gothic fiction. There's love, mystery, strength, courage, and faith. It's the journey of a lost female on the road of identifying herself. This is a classic that should not be passed up especially if you're a person who believes that love prevails against all odds. This classic is a refreshing book to read; it's not every day that you find such a strong female character in literature.Even though the only complain I have to offer is the lengthiness and the endless dialogue, this novel is worth it all. Read along with Jane's story as she discovers what she has to offer the world and herself. The story will have you at the edge of your seat wondering what is going to happen next. The main question, however, will Jane get her happy ending?


