1343952000
5.0
review/summary: A truly great novelreview/text: Fahrenheit 451 was the first book I had to read for school that I actually liked, and was therefore to a large extent responsible for keeping my love of reading alive into adulthood. That was nearly two decades ago, and rereading it now has been an equally delightful experience. It is a truly great novel, and this is even easier to appreciate after having read the earlier versions "The Fireman" and "Long After Midnight", which by comparison and contrast serve to highlight the structure, the richness of descriptive detail, the astonishing variations in metaphors about heat and fire (and their opposites) throughout, and more. Even apparently trivial lines of dialogue are laden with layers of meaning, as when Montag's wife tells him, "You don't look so hot yourself."It is also fairly philosophically sophisticated. While the novel is about a fireman who burns books, and Bradbury is clearly enamored of books, they are just a symbol: "It's not books you need, it's some of the things that once were in books. The same things could be in the 'parlour families' today. The same infinite detail and awareness could be projected through the radios and televisors, but are not. No, no, it's not books at all you're looking for! Take it where you can find it, in old phonograph records, old motion pictures, and in old friends; look for it in nature and look for it in yourself. Books were only one type of receptacle where we stored a lot of things we were afraid we might forget. There is nothing magical in them at all. The magic is only in what books say, how they stitched the patches of the universe together into one garment for us."And it is not just about one political program versus another, or even about the individual versus the state, but about independence in the moral sphere, thinking and feeling for oneself: "I took the others on faith!...I don't want to change sides and just be *told* what to do. There's no reason to change if I do that."He even abstracts from books to the nature of creative activity in general: "It doesn't matter what you do,...so long as you change something from the way it was before you touched it into something that's like you after you take your hands away. The difference between the man who just cuts lawns and a real gardener is in the touching.... The lawn-cutter might just as well not have been there at all; the gardener will be there a lifetime."And there's so much more that's absolutely wonderful in this book that I can't even touch on here. Bradbury isn't always entirely consistent and the book has some other minor flaws, but they are insignificant compared to its virtues. Four and a half stars.


