1357689600
5.0
review/summary: Finally! You started reading this review!review/text: I knew that you would read this review. It is inevitable. The moment is just structured that way. It is happening, always has happened, and always will happen. The Tralfamadorians taught me that.And since this is the case, it is probably also inevitable that you are tentatively considering buying this book (which's name and description appears above for your convenience). At least, I sincerely HOPE you are considering, as I can honestly say from experience that buying this novel is totally worth the mere dollars that Amazon has generously decided to offer it for. Of course, this book is not for everybody, and it definitely contains what many consider downfalls. Without any frame of reference, if you are expecting a specific kind of majesty from this, you may well miss out on another.Therefore let me give you a little idea of what to expect.Now, Vonnegut was not attempting to write this book as any sort of captivating sequential plot. In fact, every few pages the narration does a time jump to a completely different scene with all new characters unique to it. Therefore there is barely any conflict, tension, or any kind of real blood- pumping climax whatsoever. But don't let that deter you! This novel's brilliance lies within its other aspects, of tone, humor, and content. If you are able to open your mind to the possibilities and fun of its non- conventional approach, you will without a doubt find this novel incredibly rewarding.Kurt's blackly satirical voice is similar to that of Mark Twain in this book, though I find that Vonnegut's is juicier with its variety of bizarre, modern approaches. Unlike Twain he is not bound by the traditionalism of the nineteenth century. The comedy in this book will not only enthrall you, but will reach you on a more than personal level, as it delves into the very core of human life in a way undeniable in its poignancy. All the while, consistent running jokes and literary tactics will keep you laughing the whole way. Of course, there are definitely those moments of horror which, told in the same detached, casual tone as the jokes, will be even more impacting (it is a war book, after all). In fact, sometimes in this book, the line between comedic satire and dark commentary is blurred, making it all the more powerful.And then of course there is the Sci-fi element. While not always present, it is unavoidable, and therefore should be taken for what it is. If you are a fan of Sci-fi, especially psychological Sci-fi, then this is just one extra little treat for you. If you happen to find it completely uninviting, you may want to reconsider this book, though it shouldn't be too hard to look past it, especially in the way it is presented. In fact, this book never fails to find more and more interesting ways to present its themes. It is truly the epitome of experimental fiction.... Or should I call it "non- fiction"? It is, of course, a book based on Vonnegut's own experiences in WWII, and therefore does not lose content over flair. In fact, most of the time, the experimental touch actually succeeds beautifully in portraying Vonnegut's messages. In the end, we are left with a sense of fulfillment, awareness, and speculation, as we contemplate the meaning of death and hurt in our own lives, and find a new desire to appreciate the inevitable happy moments mixed up in there. But I'll let you experience that for yourself. Good luck!


