1353542400
3.0
review/summary: A painfully slow readreview/text: This may seem like a very halfhearted review and I do not blame you for thinking that. I don't usually tend to write reviews about books I don't like, unless they're review copies, in which case I have to. It's because I am mostly unable to think of anything to write. But since I read this book as part of a challenge, I decided to go ahead and write the review.I have seen this book compared to Orwell's 1984 countless times. I won't try to tell you how wrong those comparisons were; I merely want to show how wonderful I expected this book to be. What I got, instead, was very clumsy writing; not to mention very little character development and an average plot.The book starts out painfully slow. The writing is childlike, with short pretentious sentences, too many metaphors, an inconsistent narrative and for some reason, no quotation marks. The authors tries too hard to sound beautiful, scary, touching. Throughout the book, the reader is kept in the dark about most important things, and instead presented with a whole lot of irrelevant details. Till the very end you don't get a clear explanation of why the world is this way, what drove the characters and we never find out what happened of half the characters.So much of the plot is withheld for so long, and I can think of no other reason why the author would do this than to attempt to keep the audience intrigued. I wasn't intrigued, just confused, slightly irritated and sort of amused. The only reason I kept reading the book was because I had to find out if the mystery ever ends.I wish the book had a more intricate plot, or better developed characters. The book would make a much stronger statement, if only all the underlying themes such as gender, sex, caste, class and patriarchy were, in fact, underlying. I like books that have a point to make, but not if the message starts to hinder the plot and character development. I appreciated the basic premise of the book, the world that the author has tried to create and the impact she's tried to make; but that basic idea was the only thing I am completely certain I liked. If someone asks me how I find this book, I won't say I hate it, because I don't; I would just call it okay.


