1345075200
4.0
review/summary: Fitzgerald's characters may not be likable, but his writing most assuredly isreview/text: Back in high school, I read F. Scott Fitzgerald's 1925 The Great Gatsby and Ernest Hemingway's 1926 The Sun Also Rises. At the time, I wasn't impressed with either, considering both to be shallow tales of spoiled rich folk. I gave The Sun Also Rises another chance a couple of years ago, and was so impressed with the power of Hemingway's novel that I quickly read the rest of his major works, and some of his minor. I just finished re-reading The Great Gatsby, and while it didn't leap up as much in my estimation as The Sun Also Rises, I did appreciate it more than I did back in high school.The story of The Great Gatsby does, in fact, revolve around the discontent well-off of Jazz Age New York. Our narrator, Nick Carraway, is the one decent guy in the book, while the titular Jay Gatsby, his old flame Daisy, Daisy's husband Tom Buchanan, and Carraway's love interest Jordan Baker are all despicable people in one way or another, though this time reading it, I was able to appreciate as certain tragedy to Gatsby that had previously been lost on me.The main thread of the novel it Gatsby's attempt to win Daisy back to him. There are also parties. Lots of parties. You may not know much about the mysterious Gatsby until the end of the novel, but one thing you know from the start is that he throws a hell of a party. You might also finish the novel with an urge to start calling everyone "Old Sport." Try to resist it.What I enjoyed most about the novel this reading was the language. Fitzgerald at times seems to be writing poetry as much as he is fiction, so lyrical and evocative is his writing. You'll finish the novel with many memorable phrases and scenes still echoing in your mind. While his contemporary and friend Hemingway wrote powerfully using as few words as possible, resembling a minimalist stone sculpture, Fitzgerald strings together glittering, complex phrases that call to mind a necklace of sparking diamonds. Between the two, I like Hemingway's approach more, but those jewels of Fitzgerald's - they do shine brightly and catch the eye.I listened to Blackstone Audio's 2007 production of The Great Gatsby, read by Anthony Heald. Heald did a fantastic job with the novel. The tone he used for this production fit the Jazz Age drama perfectly, and he captured all the characters very well. I had not listened to anything narrated by Heald before, but after listening to his recording of The Great Gatsby, he's on my audio book narrator radar. The unabridged recording runs approximately five hours.In the end, I'm glad I gave The Great Gatsby another chance. I don't love it as much as I ended up loving Hemingway's work, but Fitzgerald's most famous novel was well worth reading again, and it has a fitting place as an American classic.


