1354924800
5.0
review/summary: Scholarly--But Don't Get Bogged Down in the Notesreview/text: With Peter Jackson's movie, The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey, due to hit the theaters next weekend, I thought I'd do some homework and re-read the book.Normally I don't re-read books, because there's so many other stories I have yet to discover. Until now, I've only re-read two other tales, which were also in response to upcoming movie buzz: Starship Troopers and Lord of the Rings (which I count as one story).In this case, the version I chose to read was Douglas A. Anderson's The Annotated Hobbit, my sister gave me years ago. I first read The Hobbit way-back-when in junior high school and it was my first introduction to high fantasy literature. While I remembered the basic plot and all the major characters, there were a lot of details I've forgotten.Like The Hobbit was written for children in the UK back in 1937 (and was published a year later in the US). While the book is narrated as if it is being read aloud to children, the storyline is certainly one adults of all ages have enjoyed through the years--and continue to do so.This annotated version is especially interesting and helpful. There is a 28-page Introduction, which includes a short bio of J.R.R. Tolkien and a publishing history of the book (which makes up the bulk of the intro), along with some anecdotes on such things as runes and other mythological reference material.The narrative of The Hobbit itself is sandwiched between Anderson's copius footnotes. These sidebars contain information ranging from 1-sentence definitions to historical, literary and philological information, which can run for two or more pages.At first I was determined to read every footnote, so I could later brag about my scholarly knowledge of Middle Earth lore and Real Earth publishing history. But alas; I grew weary of having to step out of the story to read the sidebar stuff. So I limited my note-reading to only those items that interested me--and were a few sentences long. If I really need to know a piece of Tolkien trivia, I can look it up later.


