1358467200
5.0
review/summary: A Princess of Mars a good story and a wonderful start to a series of booksreview/text: I got the Kindle version and I am reading that version now. Originally, I found an old paperback book which I found was a fascinating read and I knew I would reread the story.There are movies of the story out there, but they lack something. The book version is so much more that the movie John Carter (which had the best visual effects over previous movies by the way) and there are other lacking B-Movies I have seen, but they have cheap effects. One's mind can have very imaginative visions of what happens in a story, and for that reason I think the book version is more entertaining than any movie, as it has more details, give you time to dwell in the story longer and is an escape to another fantastic world.This is the first of about ten books in this Mars (Barsoom) series. I found it difficult to find all the other books as used books for sale. I had managed to get some audio book version of up to five stories, but I did not find the actually books, and I did not experience the entire series yet.Happily I found that many are of the stories are available on Kindle, and I am excitedly looking forward to experience the Kindle version of the stories and hopefully I will locate all ten books, which are as follows:1) Princess of Mars (1912), 2) The Gods of Mars (1914), 3) The Warlords of Mars (1918), 4) Thuvia, Maid of Mars (1920), 5) The Chessmen of Mars (1922), 6) Mastermind of Mars (1928), 7) Fighting Man of Mars (1931), 8) Swords of Mars (1936), 9) Synthetic Men of Mars (1940), and 10) Liana of Gathol (1948). {I'm not sure if the last one is actually related since the author calls Venus Gathol. I guess I will have to read the story to verify that information, also another note, I think these dates are more accurate than mentioned in the description of the Amazon page}.One has to realize that these stories are groundbreaking stories in a time before Star Trek, Star Wars and modern science-fiction. In fact, I think these stories had a profound influence on the writers of those movies and other great science-fiction writers of the past few decades. Anyway, my points are it is better than any movie, a great read, and I hope we all can find the entire Mars series.


