1351123200
4.0
review/summary: An American Classic with numerous layers and implications.review/text: I finished reading this book for the first time last week. I usually review the books I read here, but since this book is closing in on being 100 years old, is required reading in many American AP high school English courses and most likely everything that could possibly be said about it by the human race, positive and negative, has been said by reviewers of higher importance than I, I thought it would be silly to review it.But here's this: I liked it. I liked it quite a lot. As much as I read, it's almost absurd that I hadn't gotten to this one sooner, but I'm glad I read it at this age because I almost surely wouldn't have appreciated it in it's fullness if I'd read it in high school.My wife recently read it for the second time (and she loves it), and though our taste in books is usually pretty far from similar, she insisted I really ought to give it a whirl. I was in the mood for something older and in the modern classic realm, so here we are.I have to say it went by fast. I mean, it's a short novel; less than 200 pages. But I daresay once things get cooking (once Gatsby actually enters the novel, basically), it's almost written in a jumpy, quick-moving way. Sure, there are moments of quiet beauty and reminiscence, but the party scenes are perfect depictions of swirling chaos from loud-mouthed, gossipy rich people from the perspective of a man who largely keeps to himself. I love how well the tone of the dialogue encapsulates the time period and suggests that most of the folks were talking just to hear their own voices, responding with answers that had nothing to do with the previous speaker, and no one really listened and no one really cared (again I'm referring primarily to the rich folks at the parties... not necessarily Gatsby or the other main characters, though Daisy shows some hints of this high-living arrogance).This is getting dangerously close to a review (MAY IT NEVER BE, GAINES!!), so I'll wrap up. I reckon this is a novel with layers; something short and rich that reveals more good stuff every time you re-read it. That being said, I'm fairly certain I'll revisit this book somewhere down the road.


