1351468800
4.0
review/summary: 4Star should be 4.5star but can't or do not know to do half star stuff.review/text: This is my first re-read in 20 years. I love the introduction piece that gave insights into Ayn Rand's philosophy of writing and her explanation of why she used fiction to colorize, give depth and a real life feel into a fundamental philosophy that could be codified in a more traditional text book form. I have several other works of Ayn Rand. One of those is not "of her", but more truly about her. It is a collection of her letters.Many liberals today will confess that they've read or are familiar with Rand's work and her philosophy. They invariably give away their position when they add comments and clarifications about having some degree of knowledge. Usually they add that they read "it" in college with the clear inference that it was in their immature years and therefore an immature work only worthy of immature thinking. They also frequently comment about the length of Atlas Shrugged being completely unnecessary. When you think in sound bites, that fits. There are other negative comments that vary, but the one that never does is the one about how the "selfish" worshiping of self is the biggest evil in Rand's works. As members of the "collective" themselves, the BORG liberal/progressive mind seems to feel obligated to point out the "self" or "individual" focus as being at the root of the Rand wrong. They missed the point entirely.These confessions of the liberal mind are telling and so much a reflection of what Ayn Rand's points were all about. I have heard it said that Atlas Shrugged is the most widely read work, other than the Bible, of any written story on the planet. I have not taken the time to substantiate this assertion as fact, but I find it believable. Having it on my Kindle is incredible. This re-read has reopened my mind to just how great a story teller Rand was. Her imagery is next to none. Her characters are rich although somewhat exaggerated for literary reasons consistent with the purpose of the book.Lastly, the only reason for not giving the book on Kindle a 5 star instead of a 4.5 star is that the audio feature on this version is very mechanical sounding. The assumption I am making is that the computerized text to voice is both cheaper to do and much more economical in terms of space needed to store the entire book. I listened to several chapters while driving from Salina, Kansas back to Colorado where I live in retirement. The flow and the pronunciation problems in the mechanized translation to voice is problematic. Other than that one issue, this would have been a 5 star rating.an Ayn Rand FAN for life,Ron


