1344470400
5.0
review/summary: Where good people die young and bad people live to seize their propertyreview/text: In Wuthering Heights, two families are caught in a destructive cycle of love, hate, and retribution. At the center of it is Catherine, a proud, headstrong girl, and Heathcliff, an orphan adopted into Catherine's family. Catherine and Heathcliff are both romantic iconoclasts who defy convention. They prefer roaming the wild moors over the life of high society. They enjoy mischief and detest christian morality. Their love is one of passion and rebellion. Even though they are very immature, they are admirable in that they are true to their own natures and want to live lives of joy and ecstasy. In one insightful passage that illuminates the theme of the whole book, Catherine says that she dreamed that she was in Heaven, and she was so unhappy there that she begged to come back to earth. The angels kicked her out and she wept with joy to come back to Wuthering Heights, her home on the wild Yorshire moor. Even though these characters behave despicably, we can't help sympathize with their humanity.Wuthering Heights is a criticism of Christian ideology. Catherine and Heathcliff are full bodied, complex, emotional characters. They are both repeatedly referred to as wicked, devilish, heathen, selfish, coldhearted. But they are also genuine people with the courage to live in accordance with their convictions. It is this quality that makes the two "good" characters, Edgar and Isabella Linton, fall in love with them. Edgar and Isabella, raised as gentry, live as they have been dictated to. They are irrisistably attracted to these two individuals who don't care what society thinks of them. Heathcliff and Catherine glow with pride, passion, strength and health. While Edgar and Isabella are hollow and anemic. The other Christian character, Joseph, is hypocritical and debased.The landscape of Yorkshire is a character in itself described with immense appeal. In the winter, it is bleak and wild and hauntingly beautiful; with wind that moans with the voices of the past and moonlight that sparkles on the snow. In the spring and summer it is halcyon and exuberant, bursting with flowers, birds, breezes and green growth. We understand why Catherine and Heathcliff love it so much. The name Heathcliff itself references the heath of the moor and the cliffs that the two children were so attracted to. Heathcliff is the embodiment of the moor, the earth, and all that is real and sensible, all that Catherine loves and dies to be separated from. Wuthering Heights exalts the earthly realm over the heavenly realm that conventional ideology would have everyone aspire to.As sensitive as Wuthering Heights is towards these flawed characters, it is also a cautionary tale. The love that sustained so much joy and passion in Catherine and Heathcliff is also a love that destroys them. Catherine marries a wealthy, kind man who loves her, but she cannot look past his dull exterior to love him. She is consumed with her obsession with Heathcliff, wastes away pining, and breaks the heart of those who love her. Heathcliff, embittered by Catherine's choice, wrecks havoc by plotting an elaborate revenge on the second generation. His love for her fuels his hatred of everyone else who has a claim to her. While the story could be interpreted as the tragedy of thwarted love, it could also be said that had that love been consummated, it would have been just as destructive, just as dysfunctional. While Catherine and Heathcliff believe themselves to be deeply in love, it can hardly be called love when all they do is hurt each other and make everyone around them miserable and wretched.Wuthering Heights is an incredible novel. The language is resonant and fluid, the characters are complex and vividly brought to life, the atmosphere is masterfully invoked. It is discomfiting, moving, and challenging. It is really an ingenious piece of social commentary revealed through a love story. It is not to be missed.


