1358812800
5.0
review/summary: A Wonderful Adventure!review/text: In this book, The Hobbit, or There and Back Again, by J.R.R. Tolkein, is a story of self discovery from the point of view of a hobbit who sometimes resents said "journey of self discovery". Throughout this book, you watch as the hobbit becomes a completely new hobbit. At the start, he was described as "a well-to-do hobbit, and his name was Baggins," by the end of the book though, he becomes Bilbo, Warrior against the Goblins, Peace-maker of Nations, Burglar of the Dwarves, and the owner of a very special yet suspicious ring. The plot of this story was very effective because it kept things very interesting. There were many various adventures that took place during one big overall adventure. Tolkien never let the story get too dry and always kept the reader interested with exciting events. I also greatly enjoyed the point of view being from Bilbo's perspective. I think that everyone can appreciate the story of an underdog. Bilbo was a rather uninteresting hobbit, and I think everyone can relate to that sort of unexciting life, but then suddenly he got to travel on a fantastic adventure! It almost gives the reader hope that maybe someday their life will take them on an unexpected journey. I somewhat agree with what bernie "webviator" said about how this is not a children's book. It most definitely is not a children's book, but I also have to point out that although the book itself may be too advanced for children just as ALice in Wonderland is, the story is still suitable for a child. Sometimes more a simpler mind can appreciate things much differently than a more advanced mind, but they would still appreciate it nonetheless. Tolkien's style of writing is very nicely illustrated in the line: "Upon his tomb the Elvenking then laid Orcrist," the entire story has a magical and almost spooky tone, the author does this by creating many amazing creatures and magical objects throughout the story. I love this writing style because it successfully creates a completely alternate universe in which the story takes place, and it becomes an escape from the real world. I would recommend this book to anyone who is willing to witness an adventure or would like to discover the "Tookishness" in themselves.


