1355011200
5.0
review/summary: Not a Good Starting Point for People New to Vonnegutreview/text: I am an unabashed Vonnegut fan and even have one signed book that I treasure That is why I am fairly confident that people who are new to his voice should probably start with one of the less confusing offerings. I would recommend "Cat's Cradle" as it is told in a more linear fashion, but introduces a lot of Vonnegut's thematic elements well.Vonnegut has several themes in all of his books. Time and the nature of time is a frequent theme. He also explores the concept of monogamous ecstasy, the twining of two people physically, intellectually, emotionally into a 'nation of two' that is a bond nothing can break. He also shows contempt for the wealthy and the poor in equal portions, finding fault with both conditions with occasional saving graces. He is anti-war, anti-conflict, but, as is the moral in "Mother Night" most of his books are cautionary tales that remind us all that we are who we pretend to be, so we need to be very careful who we pretend to be. In most books his narrator or his 'hero' is buffeted by events rather than being a mover, shaker, influential, important. They are all almost always observers and commentators whose lives are overshadowed by what is happening around them rather then by the choices they make. One exception being "Mother Night".Slaughter House Five is one of my favorites because Billy, though being unstuck in time, learns to accept his life as a series of events that he controls at some times and that is pummeled by forces so large and so small that the end result is little control over anything. This ranges from his wife's never ending battle of the bulge to the fire bombing at Dresden. While an anti-war novel, it is also an anti-apathy novel. Billy accepts all things because he has come to see his life, not a series of events in which he is the prime mover, but as a millipede, ordained, foredoomed, without purpose.He is not an example, he is a cautionary tale. He does nothing to save or help or change, he goes along for the ride and blames being unstuck in time for his apathy. How sad. His constant returning to important and deeply tragic events, like the bombing, instead of staying constantly within his time with Dallas is the picture of regret and shame.Do something, is my personal take away from the novel. You do have choices, you must make your choices based not only on your personal comforts and well being, but as a part of a larger whole, as a player in a vast cosmos in which you may not matter, but you probably do.


