1349308800
5.0
review/summary: Very true and to the pointreview/text: I have ALWAYS had the needy problem with my boyfriend. It starts by me showering him with gift and attention, he doesnt appreciate it, I get hurt and nag, he runs away, I nag cause he's running away, he runs away even more. It's REALLLLLYY frustrating when all we girls ever want to do is just show our guys how much we love them and then expect that they reciprocate or at LEAST show they appreciate our effort. I have just read the book and havent applied any of the techniques as of yet but I will very shortly. I have a huge feeling it will work considering every time I give up on naging my bf and leave him alone he comes running back lol.I gave up A LOT of time with my friends because he would wine about hanging out. But whenever it came down to HIM giving up quality time with HIS friend, HECK no that would neverrrr happen. This book really helps me see that I shouldnt be so weak and just drop all my plans because my bf asks me to hang out at the last minute. It's not healthy for girls to do this but unfotunately it happens ALL the time.I've read that some of the reviews say that it didnt really work (or wouldnt work) because it made the guy give up the chase quickly cause she may have seemed to be too aloof or playing a game. From this I would recommend that people dont take the advice of this book TOO far. For example, u should show the guy that u care about him but NOT more than what he is showing u. It's not like u have to be totally aloof and pretend that he means nothing to u and act like u could do better. No. Act like u like him like he likes u but dont have a meltdown and freak attack when he starts acting distant or taking u for granted. Instead just ease down on doing the stuff u feel he is taking granted of and back off. Dont yell at him if he cancels plans. Just say something like "that's ok baby we can hang out another day. I really needed some time to get my work done anyway." Or wtvr else. And then occasionaly understand that U should break plans as well if ever the occasion comes. Dont try and bend over backwards to see him if he doesnt do the same for u.This book shows u that it's not that ur bf doesnt love u, it's just that he's different from u. He needs different things in a relationship than u do. And it's best to read this book in order to understand their perspective and not feel so bad about urself if things arent going great at the moment in ur relationship. This happens to sooooo many people and I feel this book explains it perfectly on how to react to certain situations in a relationship when ur inner needyness of a girl is dying to pop up. Keep this book at close hand!


