1356566400
5.0
review/summary: Adventures!review/text: I recently read "The Hobbit" for only the second time in my life, and I have to argue with the people who say this is a children's book. I disagree wholeheartedly. Although there are elements of children's fantasy tales in the text, the themes and actions of "The Hobbit" are much more oriented to adults.I won't waste time rehashing plot points with this iconic text; instead I will focus on some features that stuck out to me.First off, if one is familiar with the "Lord of the Rings" trilogy, I think their reading of "The Hobbit" will yield some interesting insights and they will catch some details that people not familiar with LOTR would miss. One can read, and greatly enjoy, "The Hobbit" as a standalone text, but I think it is much better when considered within the framework of LOTR.Another observation that surprised me was just how unlikeable the dwarves are in this book. Tolkien frequently mentions in his other works that dwarves are foolish and selfish, and usually only do good works when prompted by circumstance, but on this reading of "The Hobbit" they greatly annoyed me. Perhaps because of how much they remind me of most of humanity. And maybe that was Tolkien's intent? An allegory for how humanity often only makes the right choice when goaded into it, as opposed to it being our first and natural instinct.Although there are moments in the text that are a little slow going, they are few and far between, and Tolkien focuses much less on the minutia of detail about Middle Earth in this book as opposed to some of his others. I had also forgotten how action packed the last 100 pages or so of "The Hobbit" are. I was recently arguing with a friend that the decision to make the films of "The Hobbit" a trilogy was just greed as the book could not support 3 films. I was wrong, if the movies are well done, there is more than enough in this text to justify three films.This rereading of "The Hobbit" has made me want to jump back into Middle Earth, and I sense that I will be picking up and rereading more of Tolkien in the very near future. As for "The Hobbit", I will gladly revisit Bilbo Baggins and his adventures again and again over the course of my lifetime. No greater praise can one give a book.


