1346630400
1.0
review/summary: A real sour smelling toot in a public place.review/text: As the author ofSEX, MURDER AND PARAPHILIA (Chronicles of Sodom)andA Woman of Middle Age- An erotic story of self-discovery and romanceI think this Well written, and entertaining But . . .Have you ever heard a good looking woman toot in public, a real stinky, sour smelling toot? This is similar. Enough to be noticed by the audience, yet with nothing real to offer but an offended grin on your face. If there were a zero star rating in terms of contribution to society besides being a conversation piece about the worst relationship advice, I'd give this one a Naught, zero, zilch, nix.I'll tell you what is wrong with this book. This is a manual to becoming a bitter and angry spinster. Take for instance, when she says;"What would happen if you let him know from day one that you are willing to bend over backward? He'd think you're desperate, and he'd want to see just how far you'd be willing to bend. It is human nature...He'd immediately start to test the waters. The more malleable you'd become, the more he'd expect you to bend. He'llInstantly perceive you as a Duracell battery,"This is her idea of a relationship . . . Hold . . . Hold . . . Not yet, he has not proven himself. Hold . . . Okay now give him half a cookie and then, Hold. . . Hold . . . Nope I have to yank that chain, not taut enough. Hold . . . Hold . . . half a cookie . . . Hold . . . .Guess what? Real relationships are based on people who come together swinging and hold nothing back. Show me who you are from the word go, honesty upfront gets you the man/woman. Show me that you are capable and willing to go all the way for me because I will show you right off the bat that I will take a bullet for you and bend backward, sideways and walk 500 miles for you and I will show you this the minute I lay eyes on you and want you to be my mate. If you hold that back from the word go, I will move on to the girl that will show me her devotion and dedication off the bat.Her advice is so sick that it sounds like it came from a sociopath, from someone with deep trust issues that has been hurt in so many awful untrustworthy ways, that she had to write a book about it. This could be fact only if you were dating a person with the mentality of an immature egoistical narcissistic teenager. Adults, responsible adults, do not push the limits. We compensate, we accommodate, and we sacrifice for our loved ones. When in a loving caring relationship, we are willing to take bullets for one another. If you can't demonstrate your ability to bend backward for your life-mate from day one, you WILL be alone for perpetuity--your perpetuity.Another one of my peeve fallacies in this book;"The nice girl sits in a chair after a week of knowing the guy, bored out of her mind as he does something that interests him. He may be watching sports on TV,Cleaning his fishing gear, strumming his guitar, or working on his car. She is miserable but doesn't say a peep. Instead, she tries to make the best of it and twiddles her thumbs politely, just so she can be in his company."Does anyone else see something wrong with the above? It really sounds like what happened to her after a week. After a week in a relationship! Maybe he was staying away waiting for you to leave after finding out how much of a dependent, needing and miserable bitch you were.I know, life together is supposed to be an eternal honeymoon, but if what he does on a day to day basis is not her ... think about it. He is doing what entertains him and it's not her he is doing. There is a time for you and a time for me and if your idea of a relationship is you at all times, you need to be in a relationship with yourself. And if my me time seems to go on forever, then maybe we are not compatible. Get it? Or get a life!Maybe you want him to stop what brings him joy (outside of you) and become bored (out of his mind) and by your side. You are waiting around for him to entertain you. Why don't you be independent? Be a person of your own for a change. Seriously, if you think what your better half is doing for leisure and pass time is not good, then you are with the wrong better half. Go find someone compatible.Women, take this advice and you are guaranteed to be a BITCH and a single BITCH at that. If you need someone who will pull you off that chair and whisk you to an imaginary Venice, then feed you something on a bed of roses for life, then read a Harlequin Novel, don't read this junk.What she said in this table, tickled my bone, "I AM NOT ENOUGH." VS. "I'M ENOUGH. TAKE IT OR LEAVE IT." If you have to ask yourself these questions, then you are not ready to be in a relationship, PERIOD! This is the simple MATHEMATICS OF A RELATIONSHIP It takes two to be in a relationship. 1 + 1 = 2. So, 1+ 0.5 &#8800; 2. Each partner should have come into a relationship with a full glass. Else, the relationship will not work. 100% of you must complete 100% of him. Thinking in terms of being enough means you need some work on yourself before you partner with someone. Each partner only has 1 glass, and not 1.5 glasses. What this woman wants is someone to walk into a relationship with 1.5 glasses. This is not biologically possible unless you are from Krypton.Wait a minute, she says in this manual from bitch land that, if your man calls you, you need to get back to him when you are free. Call him back When you are free! She must be dealing with some real jerks in life. Because in my world, when I call her or she calls me, you better trust me, I'm picking up that phone unless I am dead! And if you feel your better half is calling you for no good reason that you need to get back to them when you darn please, then you need to be with someone else. Take this advice and your relationship will be as cacophonous as a hen yard.There is a reason men do not like bitches and women do not like jerks. Do not change who you are. It will not work! Books like this will chase that one man (woman) who might have been the one. It will chase him /her to the hills screaming BLOODY MARY!If there is compatibility and communication in a relationship, you do not have to worry about this junk and unfounded psychology. A little knowledge is dangerous and the ability to share it with the public at large is like a fart in a crowded room that is what this book is.Besides all its fallacies, it is an engaging piece of literature but nothing else.Imagine if we all behaved this way in our relationship? It would be a tug of war!


