1360108800
4.0
review/summary: One of the Best, but ...review/text: Charles Dickens, Great ExpectationsDickens tells an intriguing yarn, creates suspense and amuses us with a range of eccentrics, friendly such as Wemmick or Herbert Pocket, or macabre as with Pumblechook or Jaggers. As in David Copperfield, he gives us strong and often threatening women, like Betsy Trotwood, and here Mrs Joe. Both of these semi-autobiographical novels begin with a shock to a child that reverberates through the rest of the action. Both are seen from the dual child-adult perspective; both belong to the Bildungsroman genre. Both have been repeatedly adapted for stage, screen and radio drama, and yet both have their weaknesses of characterisation and narrative tedium.Several decades ago it was not unusual to find a Dickens novel as a set text for public examinations. Today this would be unheard of: `Too long, Sir!' `Boring, Sir!' I recall attempting to `teach' Nicholas Nickleby to secondary modern school pupils in the Sixties. Then that outmoded method of `reading around the class' was still in vogue. The lads enjoyed that and were doubled up laughing as Nickle Arse and Queers went about their business. Those who say they still love Dickens today, are probably thinking of one or more of the excellent BBC adaptations rather than the text of the book itself. Reading a Dickens novel today, except as a Simplified Classics text, is no mean feat.It has taken me several weeks to get through Great Expectations, reading it in bite-sized pieces, often as a Book at Bedtime treat. That is probably the best and most appropriate method, since like most Victorian novels it was designed for serialisation, which also of course accounts for the repetitiveness and the prolonging of tension by ending each Part on a cliff-hanger. It is not easy for the modern reader to read with the eagerness and innocence of his Victorian counterpart. The sheer thickness of the books and the at times plodding nature of the narrative demand a time and patience that for most of us today is in short supply.Nevertheless, I am pleased to have made the effort, and was for the most part captivated by the narrative and relished the sheer exuberance of the language, as when Dickens allows Pumblechook or Joe Gargery to indulge in their respective bumbling monologues. True, I got tired of Pip's continual self-analysis as he expounds on his guilt in rejecting the advances of good friends like Joe, Biddy and, later, the convict Magwitch aka Provis. I cringed, too, at the moral miracles of a converted Miss Havisham, kneeling before Pip. And the fire was an unconvincing contrivance. As for the cooked-up non-serial happy ending, the less said the better.


