1351036800
3.0
review/summary: Decent but not stellarreview/text: When Amazon says three stars means "it's ok," I take it at face value. This one was neither good, nor was it bad. Probably better for slightly younger readers who may not be able to handle something like The Hunger Games and can overlook the sometimes strained dialogue.This book boiled down to 75% repetitive description of hoverboarding, 15% description of how ugly/pretty people are (using a very limited set of vocabulary words), and 10% something actually happening. I liked Tally's sense of adventure, and her opening scene visiting the pretty village was riveting. At first it seemed like a pretty good world was being built and it definitely sucked me in quickly.However, after the initial climb up the hill, instead of a thrilling ride down, there was a mild decline that provided some interest but nothing spectacular. The setting plateaued and was unnoticeable for the remainder. The characters began verging on being cliches of what teenagers "should" be like. The story was solely responsible for advancing itself because the characters had little depth beyond thinking about outward appearance and a forced romantic relationship. Even when Tally starts realizing she likes it better in the Smoke, the author doesn't truly let the reader in on that process.I'm very much an advocate that readers need to have a moment where they consider whether a character is well-drawn/makes sense in the world they have grown up in. While I can see where she would be obsessed with little other than becoming a pretty, there was something off. Maybe it was that Tally actually felt a little too much like she could have been from our world? I can't really put my finger on it.Now, I have to grant this novel that it was ahead of the curve on teen dystopians. I'm sure without the great books that have followed in recent years to compare it to, it would have been more spectacular for me. Overall, certainly a decent addition to the YA canon, but not stellar.


