1348272000
5.0
review/summary: Lord of the Rings is a Great Book; Tolkien is a Great Writer: A Literary Mozartreview/text: This fiftieth-anniversary edition is fully corrected and has a quite helpful, very extensive new index.Of the many Great Books which are part of the Western Cannon, like Lord of the Rings (LOTR) (as well as The Hobbit, The Silmarillion, and all the rest of Tolkien's many other magnificent works) are like unto far too many other truly profound works of Literary Art of the past: They have been quite deliberately ignored, shunned, loudly ridiculed and sadly under-rated, by the oh-so-snooty Literary and Academic institutional elites of both the USA and Europe.Lord of the Rings is only just now (over slightly more than just the last decade) is being rightly recognized -- world-wide -- as a truly awesome Magnum Opus; among the very highest (If not THE very highest) body of work of English Literature ever written. Furthermore, LOTR by itself is only now seen on par with of the world's greatest and most developed (complex) epic national mythologies. In this case, a body of English myth written by a single genius over the course of but a single lifetime. (Tolkien began writing about Middle-earth in the trenches of WWI France in 1917.) In contrast, LOTR is quite unlike the great epic mythologies of the distant past: great mythic traditions which evolved by the participation of entire peoples over millennia. However, in this one exceptional case, Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and his other mythic works, put together, are indeed the singular work of but one brilliant man's lifetime; he single handedly created something very much on par with the grand mythological (epic) tales of the ancient Western world; in this case quite deliberately for England. Yet, it should be stressed that LOTR was, sadly, rarely seen in this light during Tolkien's lifetime. (C.S. Lewis called it, "Lightning out of a blue sky.")Almost miraculously, Lord of the Rings and the rest of Tolkien's other writings, have finally become near-universally seen as well deserving quite close academic study and analysis; are among the best sources of creative inspiration across the various Fine Arts, world wide. Moreover, many of the world's top artists and artisans look to LOTR in particular, as a primary source of mythic inspiration; it has likewise spawned a mammoth, multi-billion dollar subdivision of art, literature, music and movie making: the so-called Fantasy genre.Lord of the Rings, now, is held up as worthy of the very highest Academic, Artistic/Musical, Philosophical, and Literary institutions and the brightest individuals here in the USA, Europe, and all around the world: For its awesome, majestic beauty of the texts; its stunning imagery; its brilliant depth of meaning; and the rich myriad of deeply moving, profoundly thought-provoking ideas it holds. Thus, like other Great Works of Literature and epic myth, LOTR is filled with both exhilarating triumphs and disturbingly sorrowful tragedies; its timeless concepts, and truly life-altering wisdom; with all its deeply complicated elements, theme connections, and associations which certainly do not all become apparent upon a single casual reading, nor commonly with even several careful readings thereafter.The Lord of the Rings alone has been translated into over 40 languages: these include French, German, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Danish, Polish, Hebrew, Portuguese, Norwegian, Dutch, Flemish, Turkish, Polynesian, Mongolian, Swedish, Greek, Icelandic, Gaelic, Mandarin & Cantonese Chinese, Hindi, Japanese, Swahili, Armenian, Ukrainian, Danish, Finnish, and Korean, to name but a few. Moreover, every translation has thusfar remained a top best-seller in each of their respective language editions. (It's worth noting that LOTR, like all of Tolkien's works, are banned throughout most Mohammedan lands, just as they were too in Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia; a region which seems a very real Mordor -- a looming evil for well over the last 1,500 years. Likewise, a very orcish Iran also outright bans -- and openly hates -- Tolkien; quite a ringing endorsement.)J.R.R. Tolkien (1892-1973)Beloved throughout the world as the creator of The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, The Silmarillion, and many other works, was a professor of Anglo-Saxon (Old English) at Magdalen College, Oxford; was a fellow of Pembroke College, and a fellow of Merton College until his retirement in 1959. His chief interest was the linguistic aspects of the early English written tradition, but while he studied Great classic works of the past, he was creating a set of his own.MORE TO EXPLORE...After reading LOTR,The Silmarillion, Second Editionand thenThe Children of Hurin, are are both must-reads. Following that, theUnfinished Tales of Numenor and Middle-earth 1st (first) edition Text Onlyis also quite worth reading too ...Lastly, regarding the realm of the Fine Arts, there are a series of breathtaking downloadable MP3's, all by a National Danish classical musical ensemble, various outstanding soloists and a Danish chamber choir, whom are together combined with the amazing voice talents of Sir Christopher Lee; they create an outstanding work of classical-themed music, incorporating the Great English poetry and (previously unscored) song lyrics, from The Lord of the Rings; written of course by J.R.R.Tolkien. The best place to start, is withSelected Songs and Poems from The Lord of the Rings: Leaving RivendellBeyond this, in the realm of Fine Drawings, one need look no further than the monumental work of (now "Sir") Alan Lee:The Lord of the Rings Sketchbook-- Who's brilliant ideas were used most extensively throughout the excellent, yet slightly flawed,The Lord of the Rings: The Motion Picture Trilogy (Special Extended Edition); by the multiple Academy Award-winning Director, (also now "Sir") Peter Jackson. (Sir Alan's stunning artistic contributions were also fully partnered with the outstanding artistry and artistic consulting work of Mr. John Howe; who has a truly amazing, encyclopedic knowledge of mediaeval arms, armaments and warfare.)


