1346803200
5.0
review/summary: The Great Gatsby - An American Classicreview/text: In The Great Gatsby, F. Scott Fitzgerald tells us the life story of a Mr. Jay Gatsby. However, don't expect the narrator, Nick Carraway, to tell everything up front, he leaves plenty of room for the imagination. The Great Gatsby is filled with dramatic love triangles and the ever-present truth looming over Gatsby. Keep in mind the central theme of not everything is always as it seems.Written in 1924, The Great Gatsby is one of America's most recognized literary works of art. F. Scott Fitzgerald has eternalized the glory of the "roaring twenties" and has captivated his audience for over 85 years. The "roaring twenties" plays host to the Prohibition movement and creates an air of hysterics among the characters. F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote five novels and over twenty short stories. His works have been translated into many other languages and continue to be adapted into plays, films, and other forms of entertainment.Fitzgerald presents this short novel in a way that leaves the audience wondering about the truth behind every single character. Each character has his or her own agenda and rarely forgets who number one is. Don't be fooled by the brevity of this novel, it is packed to the brim with double meanings and truths to be discovered. The Great Gatsby breathes life into the past and makes you want to be a part of it. The way Fitzgerald describes Mr. Gatsby's parties makes you wish you were there to experience such a fun and never ending night. In a way, it perfectly describes the themes of love throughout the novel, fun, seemingly never ending, and yet never turning out the way you thought they would. The glitz and the glamour that is present throughout the novel would make anyone want to crash one of Mr. Gatsby's parties.What is truly remarkable is that Fitzgerald manages to make a love story into a suspense novel by always making Gatsby have to be a half step in front of the truth. A "truth" that Gatsby weaves so intricately, even he second-guesses it. I would have to say that my favorite aspect of this novel is that Fitzgerald never tells a scene with all the information up front. This novel really makes you think and recall information in order to keep up with the story line.I would recommend this novel to anyone who enjoys having to put together a puzzle without knowing the bigger picture. The Great Gatsby is commonly used in high school curriculums across the United States, but is a novel that everyone should read with or without a requirement attached. This novel is intriguing, lively and full of entertainment. The only draw back is that it is extremely short for a novel. I feel that it could have been expanded a great deal, but who am I to argue with F. Scott Fitzgerald and the story lengths that made money in his time. Overall, I would agree with the masses that this is literary classic. Make sure to watch out for the fifth film adaption of The Great Gatsby in 2013, starring Leonardo DiCaprio as Jay Gatsby and Tobey Maguire as Nick Carraway.


