1357689600
2.0
review/summary: 2 1/2 Stars - Ford's in his Flivverreview/text: BRAVE NEW WORLD is Aldous Huxley's rather grim (though nowhere near as grim as Orwell's) picture of a far-off future, one where babies are decanted from a bottle and conditioned through sleep education and Pavlovian techniques to be completely satisfied with their class and occupation; where the rulers rule by granting every wish; and where every battle in the sexual revolution has been fought and won. But even in this idyllic world, there are occasional malcontents, and Bernard Marx is one. Either through an accident in the test tube, or some other twist of fate, he does not quite fit in with his Alpha plus brothers and sisters, and like so many others in a like frame of mind, his inferiority complex pushes him to grab for leverage in a society that treats him like an outcast.It's doubtful that a synopsis for BRAVE NEW WORLD is really necessary after all this time; besides, it isn't the particulars that are important so much as the ideas. Huxley's contribution to the dystopian pantheon isn't crammed full of dire warnings about secret police and an iron-fisted ruler governing by fear - on the contrary, the citizens of this world are herded and corralled with the cattle-prod of happiness. Drugs, sex, and hypnotic conditioning create a society that is completely satisfied with itself.I first read BRAVE NEW WORLD as a teen-ager, and I seem to remember liking it quite a bit, but at that time, I was probably pretty keen on the idea of a free love society such as the one Huxley built. Re-reading all these years later, I was surprised at how little of that admiration remained. My first thought was that while the novel may have been ground-breaking when it was first published, it hasn't aged well (or, perhaps, I haven't aged well. One or the other, I suppose.) But in the Harper Perennial Classic edition that I have, there is an uncredited afterward that describes the initial reaction from critics that BRAVE NEW WORLD provoked. It says that 'the majority of reviewers dismissed (it) as weak in plot and characterization, shallow, mechanical in structure, and monotonous in tone. In dismissing the book, it wasn't that many critics failed to understand what point Huxley was making, but rather that they did not find his point relevent, insightful, alarming, or particularly original.' That about sums up how I felt about it, all these years later.


