1358899200
5.0
review/summary: Post Modern Wacky Existential Anti-War Bookreview/text: I just finished SH5 for our University of Chicago Indianapolis Alumni Book Club. I read it in college, but had forgotten much of the book and, unfortunately, better remembered the badly scripted 1975 movie. Most of our club members had read the book in college. We thoroughly enjoyed the trip back to the late 60's, especially since we are all graduates of Vonnegut's Alma Mater and residents of his home town.It is an anti-war book, which describes the Allied fire bombings of Dresden. Vonnegut relates that 135,000 were killed in the bombing, but more recent scholarship has shown that the actual death toll was 25,000 to 45,000 people killed. "All of this happened, more or less..." is the opening line of the book. The narrator tells us that he is Vonnegut and he was there in Dresden as a POW during the bombing. Several items of Vonnegut's personal history and war experiences are related int the book. And he makes it clear that his war experience taught him this lesson about war: Stop doing it!The protagonist is not the narrator. Billy Pilgrim is a weak, clownish, anti-hero, who is either insane or a time-traveler who resides (in a way) on another planet. Members or our club responded to Billy quite differently. Some found him to be a pathetic imbecile, and others a winsome anti-war prophet and philosopher.The style and substance of the book is mostly light, wry, and satirical with several pearls of wisdom. Vonnegut is a post-modern in his meta-commenting on the book within the book. His commentary on American society, politics, and religion are deeply insightful and funny. He anticipates sociopolitical issues well in advance of their currency. E.g., this 1969 book references gun control, which was not in the headlines back then, as it is now.The most interesting (to our book club and me) philosophical issue Vonnegut takes on is Time (not the magazine). Time works for the Trafalmadorians and Billy like memory. The mind can move forward and backward and land on any moment for a time. Of course, our memories do not let us move into the future. But, if existence/life is a never-ending looping circle, then there is no beginning or end. One could experience any moment within the loop through memory as past and future would just be constructs of convenience. Billy Pilgrim learns from the Trafalmadorians how to become a "timeless being" and to transcend death through the ability to continue experiencing his life again and again.Vonnegut, through Billy and the Trafalmadorians, seems to be a fatalist. That is, it seems to us that we have free will, but we really don't. The most powerful presentation of fatalism is the coming end of Trafalmadore and the acceptance by the Trafalmadorians that, though they know how it will happen, they will do nothing to change it. Because, as time is an eternal loop that does not change, the "future" will not be changed.Vonnegut's narrative style is quirky and loopy and endearing. However, the repetition of "So it goes" began to feel like finger nails on a chalk board to me. That is my one criticism. Although, I understand that he had a point to make, which is his own fatalism about death.MONSTERS OF THE MIDWAY The Death, Resurrection, and Redemption of Chicago Football


