1346716800
4.0
review/summary: So Often Misunderstoodreview/text: *Spoiler Alert*I really enjoyed this book. At age 41, I decided it was about time I read "the book" I somehow avoided reading in high school. It is interesting to find that it represented something entirely different from what I believed. This is not a social commentary on single parenthood or adultery. Rather, it is a comparison of choices and their effects.Regardless of who we are, each of us has something we believe in. We don't have to share the values of others to see how their beliefs drive the consequences of their choices. We can learn from them, even if we don't agree with them.This story contrasts the choices made by the three main characters: Hester Prynne, Reverend Arthur Dimmsdale, and Roger Chillingworth. Each sin against his/her own puritanical beliefs then make choices that profoundly affect their lives.Hester has an adulterous affair with another man. With the birth of her child and an absentee husband, her sin is laid bare for everyone to see. As punishment, a scarlet "A" is fashioned that she is always to wear upon the breast of her gown. This letter was to represent the stigma of her crime and compel others to treat her as an outcast. Hester lives her life and never stops trying to atone for her sins. In fact, near the end of the book we find that others have started to look upon the "A" with another meaning, "able." She tended the sick, gave assistance to the poor, and offered comfort and relief to souls on their death bed. The "A" became as Mr. Hawthorne said, "the symbol of her calling." (p183) Once rejected and ridiculed, she was now a respected member of her society. Hester, openly, took responsibility for her actions and never again sinned against her beliefs. She found true healing to her soul through service and compassion of her fellowmen.Reverend Arthur Dimmsdale, Hester's pastor, is compelled to pass judgment on her soul. In addition, he is called upon to persuade Hester to give up the name of her fellow-sinner. From his words to her, it is obvious that he is the guilty party. His words, coming from the depths of his soul, confess his part in her sin. He, in effect, is begging her to help him out of his cowardice to stand, once again, in the light. He says, "Take heed how thou deniest to him--who, perchance, hath not the courage to grasp it for himself--the bitter, but wholesome, cup that is now presented to thy lips!" (p77) After Hester refuses to speak his name, he makes the decision to secretly retain his guilt and gives his soul over to darkness. In the seven years that Hester transforms into a respected member of society, Arthur's guilt causes him to physically become very fragile and weak. In the end, though he finally frees himself from the burden and reveals his secret, he dies. He throws away everything he believes in, and preaches about, to dishonesty, cowardice and fear.Roger Chillingworth, the absentee husband of Hester, shows up the very day she is publically shamed in front of the community. She sees him, while she stands publicly humiliated on the scaffold. Mr. Chillingworth is an old man and admits to Hester that marrying her was wrong. He does not condemn her for her transgression saying, "Between thee and me, the scale hangs fairly balanced. But Hester, the man lives who has wronged us both! Who is he?" (p85) When she refuses to tell who he is, Roger promises her that he will find out. In addition, he demands that she tell no one of his true identity as her husband. She agrees. Thus, Roger sets in motion his plan of revenge. He recognizes that the pastor is gravely ill and moves in with him. As he investigates he is certain that Reverend Dimmsdale's illness is connected to Hester. He learns the truth one day when the pastor is sleeping. He discovers the "A" burned onto his chest. With satisfaction, he turns his plans for revenge directly on the pastor. As he comes to his greatest moment of triumph, he is robbed of it when the pastor confesses publicly his sin. Kneeling on the scaffolding, with the Reverend close to death he says, "Thou hast escaped me!" For seven years Roger's life has been consumed with revenge; after being robbed of it, he dies within the year. Hatred and revenge steal the life he could have known.The purpose of Hawthorne's text is to show that we become a product of our choices--choices governed by our own beliefs. No matter what those beliefs, if we violate their laws, the consequences will be profound. Our strength of character will shine through as we respond to the consequences of our actions. Through those responses we have the potential of gaining or losing many things, including: our self-respect, our reputations, our souls, and even our lives. In short, how we respond to unfavorable consequences will make us stronger or eventually destroy us.


