1353196800
2.0
review/summary: Beautiful language, but vapid characters, NOT for High-Schoolers.review/text: The Great Gatsby was chosen by a book club I belonged to. I had originally read it in high school (over 10 years ago), but at the time I thought it was so utterly boring that I couldn't keep up so I had no idea what was happening. I didn't remember anything except for the Green Light. Reading it now was definitely a different experience.I thought many of the characters were very shallow. Tom, Daisy, Jordan, even Gatsby. They were lounging rich folk with too much time and money on their hands. Even before I found out that this was set in a hot Long Island summer, i felt like they were so lazy. During the story NOT MUCH HAPPENS. A lot is revealed about the characters, but action wise, not much.We find out that Gatsby, is NOT so great, that Gatsby and Daisy loved each other at some point, we see a lot of drunk driving, and lavish parties, and the beautiful glitzy life of Roaring Twenties young rich Americans. We see no self-control, or depth.Even Nick Carroway, the narrator, turns out to be a VOID of a character. Rather then someone who takes action, he is the one whom actions happens to. He gets invited to a party, so he goes. He walks into a room and people talk to him, and he doesn't say much in return. People ask favors of him, but he never asks anything. He seems to be dully OKAY with everything, and have no strive for anything. He is a vessel through which secrets are revealed and are passed on, but he has no secrets of his own.Skimming the book after I read it, I see a lot of foreshadowing (which of course I had no idea when reading it the first time). For example, when Nick came to Tom and Daisy's house, and Daisy was lethargic and not talking to anyone until Nick mentioned he lived next door to Gatsby, then she started speaking. Also, when he was at the party, he heard rumors of Gatsby being a bootlegger, and later this also revealed to be true. A green light, for "go."What this book does is splendidly, in flowery descriptive language, capture a snapshot of one sector of society during the 20's. You really get a feel for the clothing, the hair, the way they behaved themselves, the interactions between people, the music, and amusements. The word choice absolutely helped when reading - I was really able to capture the scene, moment, emotion behind something. Exquisite word choice by Fitzgerald.So, did I like the book? Not very. I liked the setting, the era, the language, but the characters were vapid, lacking emotion, initiative, or drive. And the more we find out about these people, the less you like them.I definitely don't think this book should be read in High School. So much of what happened was so minute that its easily missed by teenagers. This book can really only be absorbed by adult readers. Even so, if I didn't have it on audiobook I was probably have a hard time getting through it because it can get dull at times.I should probably mention that I listened to the Great Gatsby on Audiobook. Unabridged, performed by Tim Robbins on 6 CD's. The story itself was the first 5 CD's. The 6th CD were readings of letters that Fitzgerald wrote to his publisher about this book and other projects he was working on. They were interesting little insights into the author. Tim Robbins was a very good reader. They even threw in snippets of Jazz in the beginning and end of every disk, which was a nice touch. Of course, I also took out the hard copy from the library, which I skimmed for comparison.At the book discussion we all agreed that we would have liked to see two things: 1. A follow up to this story, after the great depression, to see what become of them and their money, and 2. an alternate ending - one in which Gatsby is ok. What then? Very curious.


