1360972800
4.0
review/summary: Good plot and structurereview/text: The plot of The Five People You Meet in Heaven (Albom, 2003) is revealed through the journey of a bitter and resentful 83 year old war veteran, Eddie, after an unexpected death. He enters heaven meeting five people along the way, while searching to find redemption of knowing if he saved a young girl in his final act on earth. Eddie views his life as meaningless and worth nothing as maintenance man of an amusement park, and battles these internal conflicts of self worth and life purpose. In his journey through meeting five people in heaven Eddie finds the importance of connections with people, unveils the reality of his earthly perceptions and understands the genuine meaning of his life.Eddie's internal conflict of feeling trapped in a meaningless life by carrying resentment towards people and events in his life are revealed throughout his journey. In meeting each of the five people, he identifies how connections to all people we encounter in our life, are important for things to happen as they are suppose to. Those people who are here before we exist; those who we meet at random, and those who we are tied to for life are all there for a reason, though "You may have not known the reason at the time" (Albom, 2003, p. 35).In meeting each person Eddie learns lessons; a lesson in death and life, "one withers, one grows" (Albom, 2003, p. 49), the lesson of accepting sacrifice as "something to aspire to" (Albom, 2003, p. 93), he learns forgiveness, that love doesn't stop and that every life has a purpose. With each lesson one of the five people he meets divulges the experiences and people Eddie perceives so negatively in life from an unseen angle of the same story (Albom, 2003, p.44). As the reality of his perceptions are received and learned, Eddie continues to inquire about his final act on earth, searching for the answer so he may find some redemption for his life.The only memory Eddie has in his final act on earth is jumping to save the little girl, but then all going dark, he can only feel the two small hands on his own. In meeting the unexpected fifth person along his journey, the reality of his life experiences surface with a crescendo of emotions that support Eddie's internal conflict fueled by the judgmental perceptions of his life. Eddie washes away the pain and sorrow these conflicts have caused in his life as he interacts with the final person on his journey. He not only learns the answer to his final act on earth but finds the reason and meaningfulness of his life "Is where you were supposed to be" (Albom, 2003, p. 191).Albom presents a powerful plot through Eddie's journey to heaven and flashback presentation of experiences in life, lifting the reader through the intensity of his internal conflicts, and the release of his pain in finding the answers to which he seeks. He portrays Eddie's life and his journey through the connections with the five people he meets, and experiences the story of his life from their view rather than his perception, in order to heal and resolve his internal conflicts through finding and understanding the meaning of his life. It invites the reader to contemplate his own life experiences as he walks through the journey with Eddie.&#8195;Reference:Albom, M. (2003). The Five People you Meet in Heaven. Hyperion: New York, NY


