1357689600
3.0
review/summary: Jane Austen..review/text: Jane Austen was one of the best writers ever. She has written many books and they are all great. She knows how to write and she knows what she's talking about when she writes too. Which is a major plus for her. She can write in different styles. She knows how to write about characters and she can easily make them seem real. When someone writes like that it is so much better because if you feel like the characters are real it's easier for you to really get into the story. It was a little hard to hard to get into at first but once you got into the book you didn't have a choice to read or not because you had already invested most of your time trying to understand the book. I had this problem. I would have liked it better if it was a little bit easier to read, but it was written a long time ago so I really have no room to complain.I thought the book had good context. Elizabeth was a strong and independent female character. She didn't let much pass her and she was mostly on top of things. I really liked the way Jane Austen had made her seem like a well raised, confident, young women who wanted adventure. She made Elizabeth seem real. Like she could really exist back then. I really liked that aspect of her.When she talked about Mr. Darcy you could tell he had so much pride for everything he had and owned. He was almost close to a stuck up snob, but he made him seem more pleasurable than that. You could tell he really did love Elizabeth too. At first she hated him. She wanted nothing to do with him and she got mad every time she saw him, which was conveniently often. Every time Mr. Darcy had tried to help Elizabeth or her family it just turned into a disaster and resulting with her more and more mad at him.I think Elizabeth finally realized how much she loved Mr. Darcy when he saver her little sister, Lydia, and her entire family from total embarrassment. He didn't have to go and save Elizabeth's family but he still did. Just for her. It probably helped that Lydia had run off with the right guy. If she had ran off with some poor guy she just met off the street he probably wouldn't have been able to do much damage control. But no she ran off with Wickham. This was good for their family, I think, because it brought Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy together once again and this time for good. It had to be a plus that he saved her family and made Elizabeth open her eyes to see that Mr. Darcy was the best man for her. Her perfect match. I would guess that after they got married they still fought like crazy, but what couple doesn't?Jane Austen did a wonderful job writing this book. You can tell she was a skilled author and writer. She cared about what she was writing and you could tell that in her books. It was almost as if she was putting a little bit of herself into Pride and Prejudice.Jane Austen wrote other books too, and like this book you can tell she really poured her heart and soul into her book. I will definitely be reading more of her books sooner than later.


