1344988800
4.0
review/summary: Not the story I thought it wasreview/text: Like Dracula, this book did not tell the story I thought I already knew.Frankenstein is another one of those stories to have entered the Western consciousness so deeply that we're all convinced we know it. We see it in cartoons, in comedies, in serious movies, stories, and TV shows. We see the green-skinned monster with his arms out, shuffling along and moaning, the little girl with a flower, and the brave (if wrongheaded) townspeople bristling with torches and pitchforks. What we don't see is Shelly's monster, and whether I mean Frankenstein's creation, Frankenstein himself, or all of humanity is something you have to decide by reading the book.I was sympathetic to the narrator from time to time. Other times I caught myself saying internally "if you would have just reacted with kindness from the beginning..." In other words, I really debated who the monster was - he whose creation violated the laws of nature, or he who hated his creation.From what I understand, the former is the traditional reading of the book. Since Frankenstein played God, he was punished by his creation. He violated natural moral laws and he (and those around him) suffered the consequences. The references (both implicit and explicit) to physiognomy seem to point to this - the monster was simply a monster at heart, despite any hope we might hold out for him.I'm not sure I'm convinced that it wasn't just a literary tool in her hands. If so, she wielded it to great effect - I can easily imagine that my internal dialogue, my occasional sympathy for the monster's situation, was anticipated long ago. In my reading, there is no intrinsic evil in the monster's existence, even if Frankenstein himself sinned in bringing him into being.Instead, Frankenstein's primary sin was in casting out his creation based on physical appearance and on his place as a creature of a creature. Frankenstein's sin was a lack of love for the one he owed a duty of love to. Is this a purely modern reading, or is this what Shelley intended? I don't know, but I like to think she intended me to see it this way.Either way, the Frankenstein I thought I knew never forced me to ask the question. I'm glad I read this book.


