1343952000
3.0
review/summary: My First Trip to Hogwartsreview/text: How do you review a book that came out years ago, a book that has become part of the global culture? That's my challenge, now that I've read Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone. Odds are that nine out of ten readers (if not more) have already read the book. So rather than a typical review, where I'd suggest my opinion of the book's strengths and weaknesses, I'll instead walk you through my first reading of the book.So this is Harry Potter. After hearing about the boy wizard for thirteen years, this feels like reading a biography. I know the name and some of the exploits, but I don't know the details.Potter, like so many great protagonists, exhibits unusual potential for his age, combined with a gentle humility and loyalty to his friends. What Potter hasn't shown, so far, is weakness, or acknowledgement of weakness. (Harry's comparative lack of book smarts, when put alongside Hermione, hardly counts as a character weakness.) Harry is compelling for his potential, but he's distant in his lack of humanity. There aren't any weaknesses or flaws to be seen, and he seems to excel out of a fixed destiny rather than any real effort on his part. So far, Harry is intriguing but not inspiring.Rowling herself is a bit heavy-handed with her character development. Clearly Harry is meant to be the chosen one, and his new godparents despise his wizarding heritage; and there is neither complexity nor depth to either stereotype. I struggle to remind myself that Rowling is writing to a child audience at this point. I've been told her writing matured as her audience did, so I'm working to read this book as if it's young adult lit. Despite my initial qualms with her writing, Rowling knows how to captivate. She's a good storyteller, if not a great writer.Certain elements and plot devices have shown great potential, although Rowling does not develop them deeply. For instance, the Mirror of Erised fascinated me -- anyone who looks into the mirror sees "nothing more or less than the deepest, most desperate desire of our hearts." However, the mirror serves primarily to reinforce the stereotypes into which Rowling has written her characters, and I close the book disappointed that the mirror didn't play a larger role. (The mirror does, however, make a reappearance near the end, to serve the plot, but it's potential was left mostly untapped.)Death, too, received an intriguing treatment. Through Dumbledore, Rowling described the end of life "as going to bed after a very, very long day. After all, to the well-organized mind, death is but the next great adventure." Even after reflection I can't parse that last sentence -- how does the mind's organization affect one's view of death?Now at the end, I've flown through these 300 pages, much like I did with The Hunger Games. In both, the writing style encourages a quick read, and the plot was compelling enough to keep me from putting the book down. As stand-alone books (ignoring the rest of each series), I prefer The Hunger Games by a large margin. That story resonated more deeply, the characters mirrored reality more closely, and the ideas piqued my curiosity more strongly. This first Potter book was fun, and I look forward to continuing the series, but I hope to see Rowling grow as a writer.


