1360195200
5.0
review/summary: A fantastic read that will leave you feeling despondent towards contemporary America.review/text: I just graduated from college in Fall 2012, and took the last semester off to relax for the first time in nearly 5 years, and take a breather before beginning graduate school. Being a very libertarian minded individual who is constantly at odds with my more dogmatic peers and professors who tow the party line for (primarily) the Democrats, I was always mad at myself for never taking the time to read this work. I was at the book store around Xmas time wandering aimlessly through the stacks looking for the perfect gift for my brother when I saw this on the shelves and decided to pick it up as a present to myself. In retrospect, It was a very wise decision.Instead of giving you a specific breakdown of content (which has been done fairly eloquently by others in reviews), I will tell you what I was able to pull from the book that I find to be useful. I had an undergrad professor of philosophy once tell me that philosophical works are like a toolbox, meaning you can take from them what you find useful at the that time, and leave behind what you don't. I think much of the problems we have in contemporary America stem from peoples inability to accommodate this perspective. The same old nonsense of "as a democrat I must believe in, and support the following platform...", and conversely "as a Republican, I must believe in and support the following platform..." is precisely the type of irrational thinking this book seeks to warn its readers about.I do believe there is inherent danger in giving too much control of our lives to governmental entities or their appointed lackeys. While the narrative of this book is intentionally dramatic and perhaps unrealistic, I think the dangers of governmental interference and its contribution to the possible collapse of the economies of US and the world is a very real and timely threat. The long and sometimes sorted tale of this novel, using a dystopian type of plotting step-up, brings this point across in convincing fashion. It was impossible for me to read this book and not immediately draw parallels and correlations in my mind of current events which bear striking similarities.Many might criticize this work for highlighting the importance of individual achievement vs. their rather lofty notions of collective good. This coupled with the similarly whimsical, contemporarily prevalent notions of "greed" might also send the same demographic howling in protest. However, when employing a rationalist perspective, the idea of high achievement=high reward , I find to be both intellectually and personally satisfying. This work only reenforced this to me through use of its narrative.The power of the human mind (at least among some of us), to think, reason, plan, and achieve is paramount among John Galt, and various others within the book. Removing these elements from society through the strike, reduces said society to the lowest common denominator. To me, this strikes a particular chord, especially considering that some elements of contemporary society still cling to the stone age notion that labor controls economic forces.This book is a very well written and intriguing journey through a future that may not be as far removed from reality as we might think, and I would highly recommend it to people of any political persuasion. I think there is something here for everyone, and it will challenge political dogma and conventional wisdom at every turn.


