1355443200
4.0
review/summary: A masterpiece, but not easy readreview/text: This is not an easy book to review. There are multiple aspects to review--the first is whether or not you agree with the message. The second is the quality of the story and writing.For the most part, I was already a believer in the same school of thought Rand teaches in this book. Whether it is practical to the degree outlined in the book is irrelevant. It is easier to teach extremes, and even if those are not practical, doesn't mean the theory is not valuable. That said, you do not need to agree to get value from the book. In fact, everyone who wants informed opinions on politics, economics, and philosophy, must add this to their reading list.On the one hand, this book is a work of art. Rand has articulated a complex message better than I've ever heard before. The depth of thinking into various human psyches is incredible. In this book, Rand has demonstrated she understands human behavior and can articulate it to a degree few, if anyone else has.What I found most interesting in this book were all the characters and their unique motivations behind their choices. It is impossible to read this and not identify with and recognize most of the characters. The characters who are portrayed as the "bad guys" are so dead on accurate. If you read this and do not agree, you are young, naive, or have never been around government or large bureaucratic organizations. This book will help you understand the many complex driving forces behind irrational decisions people make. If you like the study of human behavior, you will enjoy this book.Now for the novel. Rand did a decent job using story to teach, however, it could have been better. The story is fairly interesting and will keep a motivated reader moving forward. That said, there were so many characters with limited depth that it was hard to keep them straight. I was not clear until almost the end who was the main character and what was the primary conflict she was trying to overcome. There were so many characters and so many issues that it was hard to care enough about any one to keep you going.This is a very important book, but unfortunately, most wont read it because of it's size. The same message could have been said with far fewer words and it would reached larger audience. The story was incredibly repetitive especially with many of the characters' long winded speeches that keep repeating same thing in different ways. If the book had been edited much tighter the book would have received 5 stars. An abridge version would be worth considering.Even with the minor criticism of the novel, this is an important book that any informed person should read. If you haven't read it, you opinion on government and economics is severely lacking .


