1344211200
5.0
review/summary: The Best of American Literature!review/text: As a mother who screens everything her 13-year-old daughter reads, I've shared with said daughter many, many newspaper articles that involve stories of persecution and discrimination based on everything under the sun: too light, too dark; tattoos, no tattoos; blond hair, ginger hair; short hair, Mohawk hair; too tall, too short; too fat, too thin - who really knows why people like or dislike someone on sight or through rumour?Of course, it is what they choose to do with their feelings that concerns most "normal" people - but there is no reading material, no newspaper article that conveys the harm a mob mentality can do as adequately as a good book. Todd Strasser's "The Wave" (previously reviewed) and Lee Harper's "To Kill a Mockingbird" are two titles I cannot recommend enough to help generate discussion.For kids growing up in the 21st century, the 1930s and even 1960s are much, much further away than they were when we were growing up. What's changed since then, as far as blind prejudice and "following the crowd"? Sadly, (here's where the newspaper articles come in) very little. Apparently, people just don't learn.So, with this 50th Anniversary edition of "To Kill a Mockingbird", I request the book to be released on Kindle as well ("The Wave" will only be available on Kindle in January 2013.) - and as soon as possible. Will more people read this classic because it's available on Kindle? Maybe if they think no one will see them reading it and judge them for it, they will. Said daughter's review follows:" 'To Kill A Mockingbird' by Harper Lee is one of the best classics I have ever read - and I am proud to say that I have read quite a few."The book begins when Scout Finch, aged six, and her old brother, Jem, aged ten, are playing in the summer of 1930. They live in the old, weary town of Maycomb, in Alabama, with the usual sorts of people who live in old, weary towns: the gossips, the religious folk, the old ladies who will bake you cakes and the old ladies who will yell at you whenever they see you - and then they have people like Scout and Jem's father, Atticus, and people like the Ewells."Atticus, is a lawyer, and in Scout's (and my) opinion, the best one in the whole of Alabama."The Ewells, on the other hand, are as bad as pigs in mud - the father drinks, the kids only turn up for three days of schooling during their whole entire lives, and they all cuss as bad as sailors."But, for now, none of that really matters to Scout and Jem. They have other things, *important* things to worry about. Like their mysterious neighbor, and making sure the other kids know their place, and how their crazy old aunt wants to turn Scout into a lady."Then, one day, one of the Ewells, nineteen-year-old Mayella, claims that a black man raped her - and Atticus is chosen to be the man's defendant."Soon, Maycomb, Alabama, is in chaos - the man *is* innocent, everyone knows that, but with people being, well, *people*, sometimes the unfairness of life just has to get a little more unfair."Even if it means the killing of an innocent man."When I first saw this book in my local bookstore, I must have been about the same age as Scout, and I thought that people must be crazy to write a whole book about a *bird*. Now, reading it at the age Jem is at the end of the book, I realize, of course, that the book isn't about a mockingbird."Yet, in a way, it is."Sometimes birds get shot to set food on the table, or for fun, and sometimes men get convicted and shot to keep the peace, and to mollify another man's hurt pride. And either way, the result is the same: the unfair, unjust loss of life."Of course, you argue, humans beings have *evolved*. We fought the Civil War, and World War 2, and all those other wars. Everyone is now as equal as they can possibly be, and everything's all good. But is it? Have we *really* changed at all? Do we stiffen when we see someone of a different race come walking towards us? When we read articles in the news, do we immediately think the person in the pictures is the bad person, convicted before his trial?"And almost everyday, I see in newspapers stories - stories about people being killed or wounded because of their skin tone."Their race."Their religion."Because they are gay or lesbian, or like to wear skirts or clown outfits when it isn't Halloween."Because they don't fit our idea of *normal*."So you know what?"I believe that every single person on Planet Earth should read this book. They should *all* read this book and *think*."And then, maybe we will all finally be truly equal."


