1349827200
5.0
review/summary: Beautiful, CHARMING, lovely bookreview/text: This is a darn charming book with characters who are likable without being too swarmy, and I love the way they are presented, and the way the story is told. It's a long book, but you want the children to grow and mature, and I think Smith handled this part so well, so almost forgotten is Francie Nolen being eleven years old. At the beginning, Francie hauls junk, letting her brother split the money because he is a boy. They are poor. They live in the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn. Their mother, Katie, works as a cleaning lady. Johnny was her best friend's boyfriend, and Katie coveted him, and they fell in love. Katie's brutish father was angry, feeling cheated that his daughter could not provide for him, and Johnny's mother was angry at Katie. They married, cleaned a school, then lost the job because Katie gave birth to Francie and a year later, there was Cornelius - Neeley. Katie loves her son more, and is afraid of how much she loves her son. Katie works as a cleaning person, hoodwinking piano lessons from the sisters downstairs - bringing the children so its three lessons for the price of one, and she is confronted, but Miss Tynmore likes her because Katie provides her good tea, whereas the piano teacher was only served watery junk from other customers. Katie is hardworking, smart, kind, and she loves her children - instructing them how to buy the meat, to have the butcher chop a fresh cut and then w/ an onion to prevent dilution of the meat, who to buy bread from and such. Johnny is a singing waiter, working less consistently, and the rule is that Johnny must bring home his salary, but he can keep his tips. Johnny is blond and handsome with a beautiful voice, but he is a drunkard, spending his time at a bar. He is kind, loving his daughter, calling her Prima Donna, never violent, more fun when drunk. His mother is sour, he is amongst four sons, and all the sons die before thirty-five. Johnny loves Katie. Katie has two sisters - older sister Sissy is good-hearted, loves children, has boyfriends, but cannot have children - she has more than ten stillborn children, and she blames husbands who love her, and she has a fondness for the name John. Later, she falls in love w/ her John, whose real name is Steve, and a baby boy is born. Younger sister is Evie, who marries a milk delivery man, William Flittman, who has an acrimonious relationship w/ his horse, who loves Evie, and eventually William goes away. There are more adventures, but the charm is not just with the adventures, but with the patient detailed writing. It was heart-warming to read this book. I loved everything about this book except the last twenty pages or so, when Francie becomes an adult and has that terrible misunderstanding with a boy. It was confusing to the reader, and I don't know quite what happened. The writing is so pure, almost every page is credible, and I could see all the events happening to a real family. This book has been accused of having no plot, but I think this is a book of adventures with many plots. It was so beautiful and extremely easy to read. No guilt in revealing some of the adventures, because the beauty is in the characters and the writing. A very, very charming read.


