1356566400
4.0
review/summary: This is fiction, right?review/text: I didn't expect to like this book. I knew it was long. I'd been told it was preachy - that there's a speech that lasts sixty pages. Worse - that it preached "selfishness." That is anti-religious (I'm Catholic). That it is pseudo-philosophy.I was wrong - I loved this book. Yes, there is some truth to all of its criticisms but it's an extremely compelling read. It BETTER be compelling - if you are not compelled, you are going to give up after the first couple of hundred pages.There is a popular cliche about this book that people repeat in order to sound intellectual. "People discover Atlas Shrugged around the same time they discover Middle-Earth, and they discard them both just as quickly." I first came across this in The New Yorker magazine. Paul Krugman wrote a variation on it and called it his own. Even the president has copped to some version of it. The reason its detractors dismiss the novel out-of-hand (this year's presidential endorsement decried the "`Atlas Shrugged' fantasy of entrepreneurs") is that it seems so accurately to describe the economic predicament that the country is in. In the novel, the economy is collapsing because of over-regulation, crony-capitalism, big government, and sheer incompetence. Of course, the government calls for even bigger government, more regulation, and seizing the property of the wealthy.In the middle of all of this, poor Dagny Taggart and Hank Rearden try to run their businesses against mounting odds in a society that values good intentions over actual competence. Meanwhile, a "destroyer" seems to be kidnapping all the competent people in America, leaving the rest to ask: "Who is John Galt?"But I'm still not an Objectivist. There's a difference between pointing out the inefficiencies of government and giving over completely to Rand's philosophy. And she's not subtle about her "philosophy" - she hits you over the head with it. (It was a mistake for her to spend the rest of her life writing about Objectivism - she should've let the novel speak for itself.) I will say the doctrine of "selfishness" (or enlightened self-interest) is not what pop-culture makes it out to be - Rand is actually advocating living a MORAL life. The problem is (and the problem that one occasionally has when talking with Objectivists) is that John Galt states that unless you agree with EVERYTHING in his 60-page speech, you are being irrational and not thinking. The quickest way to get someone to follow you blindly is saying it is by saying it is the only way to think for yourself.But one does not have to be an Objectivist to love Atlas Shrugged. It is a timely book. Read it if you are curiously about why it is so anxiously decried in the New Yorker.


