1350259200
5.0
review/summary: One Shotreview/text: As I am among those looking forward to the upcoming film simply called "Jack Reacher" [or not, in view of the controversy surrounding the fact that Tom Cruise will play the lead], I thought I'd go back to the book, initially published in 2005 and now with a new "Movie Tie-In Edition," before seeing the film. I tried to put everything that's transpired in Jack Reacher's life in the years since 2005 in the recesses of my mind to come at this book fresh [so to speak].The novel jumps right in with a scene fraught with tension: A person described only as "the man with the rifle" is putting into motion an obviously well-thought-out plan, in a scene that culminates with him using a rifle to kill five people, strangers all, each with one shot to the head, in a business area in the heartland south of Indianapolis, Indiana teeming with people leaving work into the heart of the rush hour, and then escapes scant minutes before all hell breaks loose.Forensics give the police enough data to name a suspect, a 41-year-old US Army veteran, an infantry specialist [read "sniper"] who they quickly, in the early hours of the following morning, take into custody. Ironically, a newly minted attorney who just happens to be the daughter of the District Attorney handling the case agrees to defend the accused man at the behest of his sister. The man himself has refused to speak with anyone, prosecutors or defense attorney, other than to say "Get Jack Reacher for me." Enigmatic, to say the least, since their past encounter had been less than friendly.Reacher himself is en route, having seen and read all about the massacre. As the author describes it: "Mostly he had rocked and swayed and dozed on buses, watching the passing scenes, observing the chaos of America . . . His life was like that. It was a mosaic of fragments. Details and contexts would fade and be inaccurately recalled, but the feelings and the experiences would weave over time into a tapestry equally full of good times and bad." And as we all now know, Reacher is an imposing man, in mind and body, and doesn't let anything stop him when on a mission, having been honorably discharged seven years ago as a major in the army, and for fourteen years an MP. (He's also a man who knows every stat about every professional baseball player who ever played for the NY Yankees.) And to steal a line from an old James Bond movie, nobody does it better.The same could be said for Lee Child. Ingeniously plotted, wonderfully well-written, terrifically entertaining, and highly recommended.


