1347753600
5.0
review/summary: Surprisingly sophisticatedreview/text: The Giver is a relatively short book, at least now that I'm adult. When I was in middle school, the two hundred-odd pages probably would have given me a little more reason to gulp. It wasn't assigned reading at the school I went to (probably because it wasn't published until the year I graduated high school), and despite its classification as science fiction, despite the fact (or maybe because of it) that it was a Newbery Medal winner, the picture of an old man and trees on the front cover were sufficient to keep me from ever picking it up in the past.It's really not science fiction. It takes place in the future, but so did 1984, Fahrenheit 451, and A Clockwork Orange relative to when they were written. We need a subgenre for dystopian fiction, not because I demand you get your peanut butter out of my chocolate, but because there's quite a lot of it and it really deserves attention as its own thing (as you can tell from the titles dropped in the previous sentence. The Giver is a story set in a world in which a citizen government has completely ordered every aspect of daily life. Children don't have birthdays; they all graduate to a new age together, abandoning the elements of their childhood their age group has outgrown and taking on new responsibilities as a class. Adults are coupled together by a selection committee, and 1-year old children raised in a nurturing hospital are given to them to raise. Instincts toward joy and love are tamped down, and negative feelings carefully protected against. Even concepts as simple as colors and uphill have been weeded out. The story follows a child whose assigned career path is to experience everything the society has left behind - pleasure and pain - in order to advise the society when dealing with things their atrophied emotional life leaves them unprepared for.What's Good: I thought the story was surprisingly sophisticated. It's been pointed out to me (and perhaps rightly so) that to a middle-schooler the story would perhaps be more blatantly black-and-white, that the moral choices would be clear to the reader and this dystopian society would, in fact, be obviously dystopian. But the author was clearly an adult, and I believe this is the kind of book one would expect to stick in a young reader's head and mature with them. I think that unlike the above-mentioned dystopias, it's not actually clear that the world is dystopic. People are happy. Yes, there is no "love". There isn't joy, and there isn't art. Some ugly little truths (like death) are swept under the rug. But the tradeoff against depression, against heartache, poverty and famine, a life of fear, a life of continual disillusionment is deliberate, and (at least at some point) consciously made, and successfully made. The way the society is presented, there really is no underbelly seedier than whatever they abandoned in the past. There are no clear answers, and that's unusual for a dystopian novel, and especially unusual for young adult.What's Bad: Off-hand, not much. There are some questions about how some things in the book would actually work (like memory transfer through touch), but they're conceits, not just poor world-building. The characters are rich and varied, despite the constraints their society puts on them, and the book isn't long enough for this "dystopia of boring" to drag. I can't say I actually enjoyed the book, but it -is- dystopian, after all.The Takeaway: I recommend it! Even if I didn't really like it, it's good! It's not spoon-feeding the reader a self-soothing opinion; it actually promotes thought. (Plus, it's short, and usually cheap because it's on school reading lists, so you don't have too much of an excuse.) Read it!


