1346630400
5.0
review/summary: Tips for people who are looking to read 'The Lord of the Rings'review/text: I'm writing this for people who haven't read J.R.R. Tolkien's 'Lord of the Rings' yet but are wanting too - most likely because they've seen the dumbed-down, royally-screwed/altered movie versions (although they are very visually and musically appealing) unleashed upon us by Peter Jackson.(or you're at your local Barns & Noble and see a display of Lord of the Rings books being advertised in anticipation of Jackson's upcoming 'The Hobbit' movies)Of course if any other Tolkien fans want to add their own two-cent tips please put them in the comments (people seem almost afraid to review the actual books - they seem to only review the manner in which the books are presented; that alone should tell you something).Reading Tips for Beginners: (this is a Journey after all)1:) Do NOT try to put this book into any genre-classification; this (in my opinion) sets one up for false expectations. Yes, this is a 'Fantasy' story, but it is also so much more: it is also a Historical novel, a Romance, an Epic, a Tragedy, a fireside tale told in a manner that suggests this all really happened a long time ago in the forgotten ages of our own world. Again, avoid classifying. These books have everything and more.2:) Do NOT skim-read. This is not a pulp-novel; or a Twinkle in book form. This is a literary six-course feast complete with before-meal speeches and music and dancing at the end. If you skim-read you will miss things, many beautiful things; many important things. I myself have made this mistake; I was in a hurry, I wanted my action-scenes and battles given NOW; I was impatient. I regret it deeply. I suggest buying and reading each book (The Fellowship of the Ring; The Two Towers, The Return of the King) on their own to help avoid this temptation. Do not rush. If you are planning to skim-read the books just so you can say you 'read' them don't even bother reading the rest of these tips.3:) Pretend that you NEVER saw any of Peter Jackson's movies. This will be very hard, I know, it was so for me. It took multiple readings of the books and multiple viewings of the (extended) films - which I also own - before slowly realizing just how much damage had been done. Jackson played some serious God with Tolkien's works, both obvious and subtle. Put the movies out of your mind; pretend you're entering Middle-Earth for the first time and try to imagine the world and its people in your own unique way, otherwise you'll set yourself up again for false expectations. Again, do not rush.4:) Do NOT let Tolkien's style of writing freak you out. Middle-Earth is Tolkien's own fully-imagined world so he takes great pains to describe the beauty of said world and the culture, language, histories and names of the many different peoples who inhabit it. There are stories within stories. There are songs and poetry. There is a storehouse of vast history and lore that is remembered and spoken of by the characters of the present. There is a deep sense of sorrow and yearning nostalgia.This is not a tale for shallow or superficial people or people in a hurry. You will either love this story or you will think it was a complete waste of time.5:) Pretend that you are encountering Fantasy (and all the trappings that come with it: Elves, dwarves, Wizards, goblins, secret kings; enchanted objects, mysterious realms, evil tyrants, swords with cool names, mighty cities, horrid monsters, last stands, epic questing and fighting and celebrating) all for the very first time. This book is, after all, what almost all other high fantasy comes from; what other fantasy stories try to aspire to. 'The Lord of the Rings' actually ruined most other similar fantasy stories for me. All other Wizards (except maybe Dumbledor)and Elves and Dwarves seem just like pale copies of Tolkien's. Whenever I encounter the word 'wizard' I envision Gandalf; when I read 'dwarf' I remember Gimli and Thorin and the others; when I hear of Elves I'm reminded of the mighty Elrond and Galadriel and Legolas. When I read of warrior-kings it is Aragorn and Theoden (and their ancestors) that I compare them to. For me there are no others. I don't need any others.Tolkien has given us all these things and only in Middle-Earth will they remain in all their wisdom and beauty and glory, forever enshrined in our hearts and imaginations, were none (save Peter Jackson in those botched movies that I used to admire so much) will ever spoil or mare them.Here is a good final reason to at least try to explore the Middle-Earth Tolkien created. These are not my words and sadly I couldn't find the person's name, but they are SO true:"Middle-Earth is not an Imaginary World.J.R.R. Tolkien not only kindly shared with the whole humanity the extraordinary world created by his mind. He brought to everyone who believed in his words, a shelter, whose walls can't be trepassed by any evil. A shelter where love and friendship mean more than just false promises based on biased words. It's a light to you in dark places, when all other lights go out. He shall live forever inside each page that brings Arda to life.You laugh, you cry, you fear, but most of all you believe. You believe in the only thing that saved you, in the only thing that made you feel real. Even if it was for a glance of time. Til your heart stops beating, the story will keep beating with you. And will keep beating for you."


