1349740800
5.0
review/summary: Untouched By Human Handsreview/text: What always bothered me most about "Atlas Shrugged" was the ambiguous fate of the office boy Eddie Willers. The novel's structure leaves him stranded in the middle of an inhospitable wilderness alongside a train he has no ability to start. He will survive only if one of the producers and creators who have gone on strike comes along to re-start the train's engine - the "motor of the world." But the irony of his fate is lost on the novel's author, for if he didn't live in a world dominated by trains and planes and other mechanical wonders only a chosen few are able to create and keep in working order he would not have become totally dependent on "his betters" for his survival. He wouldn't have ended up in the middle of nowhere, because without a train to carry him there he would not have been there; he would have been in a place where he could survive using his own skills, however limited these skills were, and not passing through an endless wilderness, egged on by a greater intelligence.If you level the playing field, the "Eddie Willers" may not be so dependent on the "John Galts" for their existence as the novel suggests. This is not to say, the producers and creators should be hobbled to give those less endowed a competitive edge; but rather that once the producers create a world based solely on production, those unable to produce are themselves handicapped and cannot compete or even survive except for the largesse of the producers. The producers make subsistence living of the kind found in hunter/gatherer/primitive farming cultures unsustainable, for a host of reasons, primarily property. Those that have can get; and once they have gotten property after property after property, there will remain very little if any usable land left for non-productive use, such as basic agriculture or hunting/gathering. One need only examine the history of Native American peoples to grasp the dynamic behind this dichotomy between what producers acquire and what remains for those outside the production paradigm. Of course, such a concept as leveling the playing field is anathema to the producers - and, of course, the attempt to do just that is, in large part, what prompts their strike against the rest of humanity. The John Galts cannot flourish in a world held to the level of subsistence living because in such a world the John Galts are the equal of everyone else. The world must be made grand and mighty and of such overarching design that ordinary mortals can only shake their heads in awe at those who create and maintain it in order for the John Galts to stand so far above and beyond the mass of humanity. Once humanity gives in to the Siren Song and places its fortunes in the hands of those who can fill the world with things they can only dream of, the game is up, the fix is in, the die is cast. And if, as in "Atlas Shrugged," they try and re-claim it, the producers will retreat to their Shangra-La to watch from on high as their foolish inferiors attempt to survive in the world they bought hook-line-and-sinker from their "betters." If you want a life filled with gleaming cities and glittering machines, then you must make like good little lackeys and obey your betters or they'll leave you high and dry - because you've allowed them by default to make it their world, with you merely an interloper.If all this sounds way too polemical for the review of a novel, it's because the novel is itself way too polemical. It's a great novel; not "great" in the sense of a "War and Peace" or a "Jude the Obscure" or a "Moby Dick," but deserving of five stars, certainly in its execution. It's exciting, dramatic, wildly entertaining, with even a fair share of subtlety and humor. But it's also heavy-handed in the extreme. The heroes are literally flawless, the villains irredeemably flawed. There are patches of gray, along with scores of well-drawn characters; but this is overwhelmingly a novel of black and white, good versus bad, moral against immoral. Every instance of collective activity is unmitigatedly wrong-headed and vile; every instance of individualistic activity is unerringly correct and above-board. Toward the end a train full of passengers is destroyed in a tunnel; the novel paints them all, to a man and woman, as collectivists, thus unworthy of sympathy for their plight. When you think about it, that's quite a feat, making the deaths of perhaps dozens of people merely an expression of philosophical correctness. So, too, is the fate of Eddie Willers little more than a philosophical footnote. Not his boss Dagny Taggart, not his unwitting fellow worker John Galt, not his rival for Dagny's affections, Hank Reardon - not one single hero/producer/creator gives Eddie Willers, who devoted his entire life to their cause, a second thought when they abandon the world their ambition and genius has wrought. His only "sin" is that he once thought there must be something higher in life than "business and earning a living"; but oh what a sin that was! Now that's philosophical purity truly gone wild.


