1355011200
5.0
review/summary: A well-written warning for technology-dependent societyreview/text: Brave New World is one of the most important dystopian novels of all time. It was written by British author Aldous Huxley in 1932. This book describes an awful future society controlled by a totalitarian one-world government.The novel is set in the far future in a society which is divided into five distinct castes - Alphas, Betas, Gammas, Deltas, and Epsilons. Alphas are at the top of society; Epsilons are at the bottom. The entire world is under control of a one-world government, similar to the United Nations today, called the World State. In this society, people are not born, but grown in bottles in a factory. Nobody has, or is allowed to have, a family. Everyone's lives are already set in stone from the very beginning. Everyone is constantly brainwashed to be content with their position on the hierarchy, and if they are not, they are given by the government for free a drug called soma, which is a hallucinogen. In addition, promiscuity is encouraged and practiced by all members of this society. With everyone given unlimited access to instant gratification, nobody wants to or even thinks about rebelling.In his novel, Huxley warns about the dangers of technology and population control. The world population in the story is kept steady at about two billion, with the government in complete control of reproduction. Amazingly for the time it was written, the book also warns of the dangers of genetic engineering, which is the way the castes are determined. Television and drugs, which are the primary ways the World State keeps control, are also warned about in the book. Huxley most likely wrote the story as a warning, not as entertainment.I strongly recommend Brave New World for all people age 14 and older to read. The message it makes about certain aspects of society are invaluable. Given that today's society and the one portrayed in the novel have many strong and disturbing similarities, I feel that this book is a wake-up call for today's increasingly sheeplike generation. Huxley's greatest novel is a great guide for what not to allow our society to become.


