1357171200
4.0
review/summary: Truly Wasted on Compulsory High School Readingreview/text: Not being American, I never studied this book in high school. Which was probably just as well. Because like the vast of majority of the classics of English language literature, such a book is way beyond the comprehension of the twentieth or twenty first century teenager. And so, a complete waste of a good book. After only a brief look at reviews of this novel on Good Reads or Amazon it is glaringly obvious that readers either passionately adore it or hate it with a frightening fervour - and for most it was compulsory school reading. Now take a look at the trailer for the Baz Luhrmann film due to be released in May of this year. It brings the novel to life in such a way that no high school English teacher could ever have done! And perhaps nowadays that is how we perceive a 'Classic' novel such as this. Filmed five times previously only shows how truly timeless the novel is, and how each generation tweaks it for current relevance.This novel is so timeless it has been compared to a Greek tragedy with its classic love triangle - Gatsby, Daisy and Tom; secondary but essential characters who tip the balance into madness - George and Myrtle Wilson; and the Chorus - Nick Carraway who is a distant cousin of Daisy and becomes Gatsby's neighbour for the summer. Into this mix are thrown and stirred the greed, ambition and hedonism of the very rich in 1920s America. And above all perhaps boredom - these people have so little point to their lives, are so self absorbed, and have so little purpose that it is no wonder trouble results. Be careful what you wish for...There is little point in doing a plot summary as the story is so well known and the plot is so accessible via the Net. But you don't read a book just for the plot. At just 190 pages, this is a short 'Classic' read, written with such vividness you can feel the heat of the New York summer, the cool lushness of Long Island, the despair in Gatsby's heart, the emptiness in Daisy. With the doorstops that nowadays pass for 'Classic' novels, it is a true joy to read something written with such finesse and restraint. It may not be rewarding reading for a teenager but for an adult, most definitely.


