1357084800
5.0
review/summary: Review of Pride and Prejudice and the milieu of Jane Austenreview/text: It's important to remember that Pride and Prejudice takes place during the later reign of George the Third at the beginning of the 19th century. The period was one of war and revolution that severely threatened upper class privileges. Conscription at home and reports of endless damger can never be comfortable news from across the channel and on the seas of the world. There was also the threat of invasion that Napoleon planned but was ultimately unable to execute. Yet war is never mentioned in the novel. There are soldiers, officers only of course, but their sole military duties are flirtation and to supply dance partners.The true conflict, in fact the only conflict of the Bennet family, is the struggle to marry off the eligible daughters before their father dies. Primogeniture is the evil djinn of the plot and Mrs. Bennet and the daughters are never unaware of the perils of their situation. They live one heart beat away from being thrown out of their estate by the male heir, their cousin Mr. Collins. Their only options are marriage or a life of dependency on a relative's charity. The girls are untrained. They can never earn their livings and the only skills they possess are those required of a wife, a companion, and a homemaker. Here I am thinking of Jane and Elizabeth. The youngest, Lydia, runs away with a scoundrel officer and almost brings the family to ruin. The other two daughters, Mary and Kitty, are mere bookends of little note, useful perhaps to illustrate the unlimited production of Bennet daughters, and to highlight the misfortune of never having produced a son.Every unattached man the family encounters is defined by fortune. Darcy has an income of 10,000. and Bingley 5,000. Once these two are corralled, the fate of the rest of the family is secure and the novel ends with satisfaction. The great peril is that these two wealthy bachelors will not be induced to perform their assigned tasks, finding and wedding two suitable wives from an otherwise often embarrassing Bennet family. Among the great delights of this novel are the nuances of character displayed and the modulations of the central personages as fortune and misfortune threaten and abate.Loss of place and social ostracism run behind every line of text and the wonder of Jane Austen's novel is that the threat of material want is ever present and yet is rarely noted. In polite company such matters are never discussed, but they are implicit in every second of existence. The stress is desperate and the courage of the characters immense. Since it is never expressed, it is possible to imagine it lies hidden in their minds but never given place in speech.Dialectical materialism can understand and find clarity in the situation of the Bennet family. A rereading of Das Kapital might be a useful sequel to this great novel.


