1360972800
3.0
review/summary: Don't Teach a Man to Fish, Just Tell Him His Minnow Is A Whalereview/text: I have read the book and taken the class, twice.In my opinion, Dale Carnegie's advice does apply most to a business relationship, and less so to a meaningful, deep, personal relationship. Being nice to others is a good thing, yet Mr. Carnegie is essentially teaching, for better or worse, how to manipulate people by focusing on what they want to hear, by focusing on what is pleasing, or flattering, to another person. I agree with Mr. Carnegie, using the techniques will certainly &#34;win friends and influence people&#34;. Yet at what cost? Honest and direct communication takes a heavy hit from Dale Carnegie. How would you prefer your deep relationships to be? Based upon honesty, even if that honesty is not always easy to accept in the moment? Or do you want your close relationships to only flatter you, appeal to your vanity, tell you only what you want to hear, never offer constructive criticism out of concern you will be offended? Granted, in business, in sales, there is a certain societally agreed upon dishonesty that greases the wheels. If you want to be a good salesperson, you may very well need to be &#34;selective&#34; in your use of honesty for the very reasons Dale Carnegie outlines. Yet for a deep, real, meaningful relationship, shouldn't honesty take priority over vanity, over being pleased, over being told what you want to hear.At higher levels of business, being a &#34;yes man&#34; will not get you very far. Yet that is what Dale Carnegie teaches, how to be a yes man. Selling stuff, sure, being a yes man is very effective. Being a leader, or for deepening a valuable personal relationship, being a yes person will lead to a superficial, even punch drunk, level of intimacy. In short, very shallow. The value of what Dale Carnegie taught varies greatly depending upon the context in which his principles are used.How would the Dale Carnegie principles apply to the abolition of slavery, Gandhi's line in the sand with imperialism, The Allies' stance against Hitler, or the civil rights act? What if Abraham Lincoln chose not to argue with the south, or the USA decided to focus on the positive side of Hitler and not get involved? With if Rosa Parks simply moved to the back of the bus because sitting upfront wouldn't change the cracker's mind anyway? The Dale Carnegie principles are simply the outright enemy of social change. Thus please take the Dale Carnegie principles with a grain of salt and apply them to the forum in which they are most appropriate, sales. For instance, if you are selling shoes to feed your family, pour on the Carnegie charm, there's nothing wrong with that. If you are looking for deep relationship, or powerful leadership willing to change the status quo, look elsewhere, look far far far elsewhere.


