1352073600
2.0
review/summary: I Read Atlas Shrugged--Recentlyreview/text: Although it was often a slog, I *was* able to finish Ayn Rand's book, which is something I can't say about some other writers with followings: say, Robert Ludlum, or Tom Clancy, or Nephi ("author" of the "Book of Mormon"). Her writing isn't always hopeless, her English is certainly better than my Russian, and sometimes there's music in her words. Moreover, I share her disdain for certain conventional cultural values. Those points of agreement don't, however, tend to be the issues that have generated most of the recent popular enthusiasm for her books.There are a few good guys, and they're really good - I call them the Legion of Superheroes. They're mostly blond and even when they're not they usually have blue eyes. They can do everything well: perform tricks with racing boats without training or practice, fly planes, invent miracle metals and machines that draw power out of the static electricity in the air. They're strong and smart, they all move with grace and agility, they're suave and very certain of themselves. Rand talks about them like this: "her posture had the lightness and unself-conscious precision of an arrogantly pure self-confidence." "...he knew, by the proud posture of the body standing in the open, by the straight line of the shoulders against the starlit sky--that the man was not a bandit. When he heard the voice, he knew the man was not a beggar." (This describes a blond Norwegian *pirate* good guy named--get this--Ragnar Danneskj&ouml;ld.) More on Ragnar (who went to college in Cleveland): "The tall, slim figure, with the windbreaker stressing its trained muscular agility, was that of a highwayman; the stern marble face was that of a judge; the dry, clear voice was that of an efficient bookkeeper." "Danneskj&ouml;ld's face was more than handsome...it had the startling beauty of physical perfection--the hard, proud features, the scornful mouth of a Viking's statue...But the smile was brilliantly alive." "...the austerity of the marble face was the form of a disciplined capacity to feel too deeply." Here's how one good guy speaks to another: "Yet you and I were the kind who determine the fate of our world." They talk like this among themselves quite a bit. And John Galt, the head good guy: "...his skin was suntanned, his body had the hardness, the gaunt, tensile strength, the clean precision of a foundry casting...the loose strands of the hair shading from brown to gold in the sun...eyes the deep, dark green of light glinting on metal." Green metal? In this book, yes. And about Galt, Francisco D'Anconia, and Ragnar together: "don't make the mistake of thinking that these three...are some sort of superhuman creatures. They're something much greater and more astounding..." "Francisco, the richest heir in the world--Ragnar, the European aristocrat--and John, the self-made man, self-made in every sense..." He built that!Then there are the bad guys: the "looters." You'll never mistake them for good guys, not for a second, and their badness is continually, mercilessly pounded home. Here are some of the words she uses to describe the looters: "whining rotters," "born to rule by the grace of incompetence," "...the pendulous face ... with the small slits of pig's eyes, the doughy face ... with the eyes that scurried away from any speaker and any fact...the jerky motions of an ape performing a routine it had learned to copy by muscular habit...with no knowledge and no capacity to know what had taken place..." "...a small, aging man with a face that looked as if it had once been punched in and had never rebounded." A writer of the looter persuasion: "an obese old man with retouched hair and a manner of scornful cynicism retouched by quotations from the yogis about the futility of all human endeavor." Another: "...a sniveling little neurotic who wrote cheap little plays into which, as a social message, he inserted cowardly little obscenities to the effect that all businessmen were scoundrels." Was she thinking of someone in particular, maybe someone who'd written her a nasty review? "...an ocean of mediocrity, under the pressure of men with gelatin eyes, rubber voices, spiral-shaped convictions, non-committal souls and non-committing hands..." "...pale eyes that looked fishy, cold and dead. And if you ever want to see pure evil..." "...a fat, jellied woman, with an inadequate brassiere under a dark, perspiration-stained dress..." "...a fat, blank face and the eyes of a killer." "All thought is theft" says one of the head looters.I came away feeling sorry for Rand. For all her commercial success and the adoration of her followers, the writer of this book seems like she must have been pretty miserable. I think it helps to know that the then-new Soviet regime confiscated her father's St. Petersburg pharmacy when she was a young girl: hence her hatred of totalitarianism. I share her dislike: I wouldn't have wanted to live in the Soviet Union, either. But I don't think I do. The world she portrays here bears little resemblance to mine, and I'm grateful for its many dissimilarities.I also understand that she had been a regular user of Benzedrine for the 14 years prior to this book's publication. Maybe that's why the prose is frequently so awkward, the ideas so jumbled--sometimes simply incomprehensible: speed is hell on your central nervous system. She loves setting paradoxes: "mirthless laughter" is a favorite. But far too often, over 1600+ (iBook) pages, she falls off the edge into self-contradiction or mere incoherence: "...the light swift steps of her high heels stumbling through drifts of slag..." "...her voice was breaking in gentle, desperate, rebellious anger..." "She felt at peace, and she wished she could hold her mind still to let her own emotions catch up with her..." "His eyes were shrewd without intelligence, his smile good-natured without kindness." "His was the only face that had the carefree look and the brilliant smile proper to the enjoyment of a party; but his eyes seemed intentionally expressionless, holding no trace of gaiety, showing--like a warning signal--nothing but the activity of a heightened perceptiveness." "...a long, impotent pressure..." "...the formula of so monstrous an evil that he was able to name it, but not to believe it possible." "He was seeing the enormity of the smallness of the enemy who was destroying the world." "...a vicious tap against an ashtray..." "...a look of astonishment, of acceptance, of repose." "...he felt what one feels at the loss of a dream one had not known till after it was lost." (And what is that feeling, exactly?) "...her consciousness...surrendered to a single, wordless emotion--but she had always known that an emotion was a sum totaled by an adding machine of the mind, and what she now felt was the instantaneous total of the thoughts she did not have to name..." "Only the man who extols the purity of a love devoid of desire, is capable of a desire devoid of love." (Rather pretty, that last one; I wonder what it means.) "He had the cunning of the unintelligent and the frantic energy of the lazy. The sole secret of his rise in life was the fact that he was a product of chance and knew it and aspired to nothing else." (A bad guy, I'd guess.) "...she felt that she had full control of her body and that she was not aware of her body's existence." "...an emotion of solemn, joyous excitement..." "...the naked body under the clothes..." "...the slack, muscular bodies..." "...a hard face made of soft muscles..." And this brainteaser: "The college had taught him that the purpose of ideas is to fool those who are stupid enough to think."I sympathize with this bright but troubled woman with her childhood trauma, her addiction to amphetamines, and I'm sure her bitterness at what must have been a lot of scathing reviews. But that's not sufficient justification for me to consider her protracted revenge fantasy as a basis for an economic system or a philosophy. She praises reason in the abstract--"'If any part of your uncertainty,' said Galt, `is a conflict between your heart and your mind--follow your mind.'"--but simultaneously admires (and writes with) an overheated, hysterical flamboyance: "The only man never to be redeemed is the man without passion." We are rational beings! she shrieks, voice cracking with rage, spittle flying from her lips, clenched fists shaking uncontrollably.I can see why she'd appeal to rich people and to "young adults" trying to escape their pious childhoods, people who are tired of hearing about "faith, hope, and charity" ("...but the greatest of these is charity," says 1 Corinthians 13:13). Here's what she says on the subject: "'And then you'll see what motive is the opposite of charity.' 'What?' she whispered. 'Justice, Cherryl.'" I'm relieved that we don't really have to speak in Rand's Bizarro World version of English (where was her editor?). At the same time, it's difficult for me to understand how such a world view can be rationalized by avowed Christians who admire her, people like Paul Ryan.This is the physical world she admires (from a distance): "Mr. Mowen looked at the skyline, at the belts, the wheels, the smoke--the smoke that settled heavily, peacefully across the evening air, stretching in a long haze all the way to the city of New York somewhere beyond the sunset...he felt reassured by the thought of New York in its ring of sacred fires, the ring of smokestacks, gas tanks, cranes and high tension lines. He felt a current of power flowing through every grimy structure..." Rearden (a good guy) in the country: "What I'd like to see...is a billboard." Later, good guy Dagny, Rand's alter ego ("Ayn," the former Alisa Rosenbaum, does have a fondness for unlikely names) says that "She had found reassurance...in the sight of the cities moving past her window--the factories, the bridges, the electric signs, the billboards pressing down upon the roofs of homes--the crowded, grimy, active, living conflux of the industrial East." I grew up in a factory town; I've seen a blood-red sun set behind Detroit's River Rouge plant, so maybe it's my familiarity with it that makes it hard for me to resonate to Rand's sentimentalization of industrial squalor.In the promised land of the good guys, "Galt's Gulch, " we find, almost literally, the proverbial altar to Mammon: "...rising on a slender granite column..., blinding her by its glare, dimming the rest, stood a dollar sign three feet tall, made of solid gold.""Blood, whips, and guns--or dollars. Take your choice--there is no other--and your time is running out." This is Francisco D'Anconia, one of the good guys, talking. Carved (in granite, and all uppercase) over the doorway of the power station in Galt's Gulch: "I SWEAR BY MY LIFE AND MY LOVE OF IT THAT I WILL NEVER LIVE FOR THE SAKE OF ANOTHER MAN, NOR ASK ANOTHER MAN TO LIVE FOR MINE." I read this as one more bumper sticker slogan (a large bumper sticker, befitting the author's verbosity) along with another that Rand doesn't care for as much. In fact, she calls it "pure evil": "From each according to his ability, to each according to his need." Nave, impractical, even tragically abused at times, perhaps, but pure evil? More evil than "Blood, whips, and guns--or dollars"? Now *there's* a bumper sticker.As a final example of the implausibility of this book, there's a scene in which Rearden is called in by the half-dozen most powerful men in the government. They want him to actively support the nationalization of his iron works. Instead, he asks them (in various ways) how they're going to pull it off, and how he's going to be able to survive operating at a loss. Four times in one page they're rendered speechless by the power and cogency of his questions: "There was no answer," Rand intones each time, and it sounds more than anything else like a ritual liturgical response from one of the churches that inspire such contempt in her. It seems unlikely that there exists a question for which a roomful of politicians and bureaucrats, of any stripe, wouldn't have an answer.Next, "The Fountainhead"? I can't miss a chance to pass that one up.


