1351555200
5.0
review/summary: A trully great bookreview/text: Reviewing "The Great Gatsby" feels a bit presumptuous and for sure somehow redundant. What can one say that has not been said already about this seminal story?To avoid being totally repetitive I will start with some personal perspective. I read this book the first time as a teenager in my native Bucharest, at a time when I knew little about life in general and almost nothing about New York or United States. When I finished reading, I was left with the impression that this was about some people quarreling after a car accident. What a difference 40 years make. Reading it now, I felt great empathy for the plight of the characters and I believe I recognized at least some of the universal themes pursued by the author. It seems to me that Fitzgerald advances here a very pessimistic premise about people's behavior and what they can expect from life, namely that those who are self-absorbed or just selfish will always end up better off than those who, in pursuit of valid or absurd dreams, insist on fighting the reality on behalf of their dreams.As we follow the story, Gatsby's dream of recapturing the lost love of his youth, Myrtle's dream of becoming a respectable bourgeois matron, Wilson's dream of being a successful business owner, all become vehicles for the ultimate destruction of those who dream them. In the meantime the monumentally insensitive Tom and the cowardly shallow Daisy continue to prosper in the big city, not perturbed in the least by their heavy responsibility for what has just happened. Learning his lesson, the narrator, Nick , gives up on his dream of becoming a well-adjusted East Coast money man and decides to go back home to Mid-West.Some people will see here a class contrast element. After all, Tom and Daisy are rich while their unintended victims are low or lower class. I believe that the essence of the story transcends class. In my experience, people like Tom and Daisy can be found in all strata of society, irrespective of income or status.The pleasure of reading this book is enhanced by Scott Fitzgerald wonderful gift for using little details like a gesture, a word, a simple noise or a clever comment by the narrator in order to bring depth to his characters and advance the story. "The Great Gatsby" effortlessly transports us to the "roaring twenties" in New York City, a time and place of great optimism and sudden prosperity for many. The author viewpoint is less rosy. He spots human frailty and suffering even in the middle of the most lavish settings. In a symbolic way, Daisy's car crash portends historical events still to come. Ability to prophesize aside, Fitzgerald remains himself a product of the era. Within the story, he casually stereotypes Jews as shadowy money grubbing characters with hairs coming out of their noses and he is not above using variations of the "n" word when he thinks necessary. No matter; this is a remarkable novel, one of those ten or twenty essential books that everyone should read before claiming they know anything about human nature. I highly recommend it.


