1358035200
5.0
review/summary: TEMS Book Review: Nightreview/text: The memoir "Night" by Elie Wiesel tells about the horrifying details of his memories as a teenager in the Auschwitz concentration camp. This is a very sad and informative book that I would recommend to any teenage student to read in order to understand actual events that occured in history. The interview with Oprah Winfrey shows actual footage of the record events that took place in his book. The videos on YouTube even have Elie reading passages from his book to get a better understanding of what he survived. Elie Wiesel memoir can hopefully bring awareness and help to prevent people from repeating history.In the beginning of his story Eliezer is unaware of the slow take over by the Nazi Party and the turn of events that would occur. The Jewish population were still in the dark about the menacing things the Nazi's had in store for them. Moishe the Beadle is the first to warn the people and his story was ignored. Everyone thought he was crazy because the brutal tale he told was unthinkable to them. The people of Sighet, Transylvania could not take in the insanity that was slowly surrounding them. When Elie and his family were transported to Auschwitz there was yet a second warning to the people about the evils that were about to occur. As the people are squished and left with barely any food a woman on the train notices the fire. When she screams to the people to warn them once again the warning is ignored. Elie Wiesel clearly describes the brutal attack on the woman to shut her up. Eliezer and his family are immediately separated as they enter the Auschwitz camp. A man warns Eliezer and his father to lie about their ages in an attempt to save their lives. However, he describes in detail how the harsh reality of the extermination of the Jewish people barely kept anyone alive. The Jewish people were prisoners whose lives were taken away at any given time by the Nazi police. Towards the end of the memoir it was difficult to read Eliezer watching his father get beaten and not being able to do anything about it. Elie Wiesel was so honest about his feelings about things that happened between him and his father. His memories will keep the story of the Holocaust alive.


