1352246400
4.0
review/summary: A lyrical artist - Persuasion.review/text: I know why this is considered a classic. The language used. Contemporary novels will never be written like this. It is like reading from an artists eyes. The way sentences are written is very different to the way they are written now. A lot of thought went into each [sentence] or rather Jane Austin is so gifted it comes second nature.Now for the book summary and highlights. It was tough to get into. About the sixth chapter is starts getting interesting. Often you put down a book if the first chapter fails to capture the imagination, but with a 'classic' you need a little patience and endurance. It is worth the wait.This review is after reading the classics of War and Peace, Crime and Punishment, the Art of War, Moby Dick, Andre Norton's Saragasso Series, Charles Dickens' Our Mutual Friend, Secret Adversary by Agatha Christie, Confucius' Sayings, Common Sense by Thmas Paine, and Treasure Island (to give this context). You see I did not enjoy reading when I was young, but now older and with a 1.25 hour commute on the train (to Brisbane from Gold Coast) and back, I have time !Compared to Charles Dickens, it is an easier read. Charles' book was a tougher read and more complex but it did go into Persuasion but moreso into the realm of manipulation. If you enjopy Persuasion, you should read Dickens' book. Mind you Dickens' book is an even tougher read - I re-read the first seven chapters 3 times ! but it is definitely worth it. Like digging for gold - you struggle a lot, but when you find the gold it is like WOW !Anne Elliott is somewhat ignored by her family (Father Sir Walter and Sister Elizabeth). Her mother passes and their finances are in disarray. Miss Russell a confidant of Sir Walter contrives a scheme to boost their cashflow while moving them elsewhere with little impact to their social-life. Anne who is steadfast and reasonable and even tempered throughout the story demonstrates that not everyone can be manipulated and if you are even-tempered and reasonable, nothing will escape your obsveration.She comes across Mr Worthington (admiral) and initially she hopes to marry him, then the persuausive schemes start and you know throughout the whole book, I'm looking for acts of Persuasion to give this book meaning and the answer is found in the last chapter and Jane Austin neatly ties the story into a happy ending. Through acts behind the seen a third party is after Anne's affections and this person works in concert with other key characters until Anne bumps into an old friend Mrs Smith and the whole scheme is turned on its head !In truth, the major drama surrounds louisa who falls while being silly and nearly kills herself, but the way it is written that part seems trivial and it is used to free certain people and allow certain things to swing in motion. If only Mr Elliot was there sooner and saved Louisa.... There's a thought, then this story may have gone a differnet direction. Read this and see if this review makes any sense at all !?!


