1361145600
3.0
review/summary: Engrossing book, but not as they know it ...review/text: As a read, it rates quite well, until you come to the stodgy pages of the Goldstein book, supposed to reveal so much (more on this later). But now let's consider the reader who thinks as well.I find that a lot of people simply don't read this book properly. 'Chilling exposure of totalitarian future'? 'Takes you to a nightmare world of totalitarian domination'? Yes, that's what I had heard too when I opened this book as an adolescent. But my overwhelming impression was of the sheer seediness of the world depicted. Winston and Julia's rebellion is directed at least as much against their degraded lives as against the Party's control of them. Years later, I noticed my students didn't see this. And of the first ten reviews I read, only one had as much as half a sentence on it.There's a lot of grimy, gritty realism in this book. But it isn't, finally, a realistic novel. First, it depends on huge silences. Winston Smith is clearly a man of some culture. Yet how, given the circumstances of his life, did he obtain it? Also, how could the party possibly have changed from the winner of some sort of socialist revolutionary struggle before to what it is in 1984? How come Smith has some sort of amnesia about all of this?The overdetermined nature of the story is also unrealistic. O'Brien seems to be able to read Smith's dreams. The place he gets the notebook from just happens to be the place for Winston and Julia's love nest, the owner of which just happens to be a member of the thought police. In Smith's interrogation, O'Brien has the ability to read Smith's thoughts. Of course, all this enforces the doom that hangs over his rebellion, but it has the quality more of a dream, when the dreamer's fears immediately become concrete, than a book that says much about our actual world full of chance and contingency.The social structure depicted in this book is not that of Soviet communism, but of Soviet communism spliced together with the British class system. Notice that Party members do not, in that classic giveaway phrase, 'speak with accents'. The Party did not function as a class in the Soviet system; it pervaded the whole of society and was stridently and sincerely for the proletariat and proletarian values right to the end. The society of 1984 wouldn't have worked without the economy being far more permeated by the party than would have been possible in the book: it would have ticked once or twice and then stopped. Orwell's proles have no culture of their own: everything is dished out to them by the Ministries. His patronising attitude is the worst sort of contempt.Now let's say something about the great book, that is supposed to explain everything. The first lines tell us that the Middle want to replace the High, but the Low dream of universal brotherhood. Even when I read that as a fourteen-year-old I knew that was false: why shouldn't the Low want to replace the Middle? Isn't that what vast numbers have done? Then the inmost answer of answers - was there ever such a damp squib? The Party do as they do to satisfy their lust for control and dominance? Come off it. I can believe in a once revolutionary or idealistic party that has become hopelessly mired in corruption and self-seeking, and I am sure that some members of the security services take a sadistic pleasure in doing their jobs, but rulers as a whole? They've got better things to do. O'Brien's mind encompassing Smith's (it says this at one point)is a figure of Orwell's encompassing both - which makes this a very sado-masochistic book.


