1360713600
5.0
review/summary: Growth Through Growthreview/text: Betty Smith's novel, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is an essential read for teen girls learning about their surroundings. This historical fiction, set in early 1900s Brooklyn, leaves readers feeling like they have grown by reading the book. The plot centers around Francie, a girl who grows up with and learns to navigate a dark world.The beginning of A Tree Grows in Brooklyn establishes the poverty Francie Nolan, the protagonist, faces. Evidence of the Nolans' poverty can be found when Smith writes about how Francie enjoys "their one great luxury," wasting coffee: "From time to time, she'd smell the bitter sweetness of it. That was better than drinking it. At the end of the meal, it went down the sink... Mama explained: `...I think it's good that people like us can waste something once in a while and get the feeling of how it would be to have lots of money and not have to worry about scrounging'"(14). Since Francie's mother, Katie Nolan, likens being wealthy to not worrying about scrounging, you could infer that her family is poor. A middle-class person would think it was normal to live without scrounging. The poverty, and other problems such as Francie's frequently drunken father, creates a challenge for Francie's growth.One of Betty Smith's messages is that in order to grow up, you must understand the world in which you are growing. The tree foreshadows this theme in the beginning. Smith writes about that type of tree, "You saw a small one of these trees through the iron gate leading to someone's yard and you knew that soon that section of Brooklyn would get to be a tenement district. The tree knew. It came there first"(6). This detail suggests the tree understands poor habitats and that is why it thrives in these places. In the contrast, Francie is initially too innocent to understand the darkness of her life. Her navet&eacute; is demonstrated in the passage, "Francie made Mama watch while she put the eight cents in the tin-can bank. They had a pleasant five minutes conjecturing about how much was in the bank. Francie thought there must be nearly a hundred dollars. Mama said eight dollars would be nearer right"(12). Francie is too nave at this point to see that her family is poor. She will have to understand the circumstances if she is to succeed as she gets older. The tree symbolizes this requirement and, in that way, sets the stage for Francie's story.Teenage girls who are beginning to understand the realities of life and enjoy pondering these discoveries should read A Tree Grows In Brooklyn. It is about a girl who is challenged to face the facts of her life. The plot would be attractive to another girl facing similar challenges because she could relate to Francie and would learn more about life. A Tree Grows in Brooklyn helps develop readers by vividly portraying Francie's development.


