1354838400
3.0
review/summary: The little engine that couldn'treview/text: Much of Ayn Rand's philosophy--Objectivism--resulted from her growing up in the Soviet Union under Communism. Rand emigrated to America as a young woman, where she believed that in a free society, under Capitalism, she could write and get her works published. Rand could not accomplish these goals under the Soviet system.It is clear from Rand's works that she hated Communism. Objectivism, in its pure form, allowed individuals to strive to be themselves and earn what they can without relying on others for economic assistance or other similar types of aid. This, of course, included help from government agencies.In _Atlas Shrugged_ Rand presents her philosophy (or should I say, continually bangs the reader over the head) by developing a plot about a woman, Dagny Taggert, who is competent and self-reliant, and runs a railroad under the aegis of her ignorant, and unimaginative older brother, James. The U.S. economy is severely running aground, as does her rail line, because of extraordinarily strict governmental regulations related to production and work force rules. These regulations are meant to be fair to everyone, but they result in economic chaos and financial ruin for everyone. Rand believes that even the "looters," i.e. those who lazily take advantage of so-called government largess, do not benefit under the American economic system.While Rand's theories are well argued and systematically thought out, she ignores those in our society who do not benefit from pure capitalism. What about those millions who are chronically unemployed or under-employed, and cannot afford to pay for health insurance, or are homeless. Are all those women with children (and no husbands) on public assistance merely "looters," and not victims of a selfish, greedy, profit motivated, capitalist, "dog eat dog" economic system? To strengthen her points, Ms. Rand puts her readers through a 100 page radio address by a man viewed as the only possible savior of the eventual economic collapse of the "People's Republic of the United States?" I sincerely hope not.


