1354147200
4.0
review/summary: Compared with Shakespeare and Geniusreview/text: When Herman Melville first sat down to write Moby-Dick he had been scorned by many and praised by similar amounts for his outlandish texts Typee and Omoo. Both were decidedly anti-Christian and what seemed to be pro-cannibalism. A weaker mind, a lesser person, might have turned tail at such notions and collapsed into himself, but not Melville. Instead, he wrote a tour de force book that has become increasingly popular (unfortunately for Melville since this occurred after he left the physical world) as the years progressed. At first, the novel was hardly a hit, but after his death a revival took place that has continued up until the present day. This book, the Norton Critical Edition, is a perfect gem for those of us that wish to know more about Melville, his life, his past works, and the critical analysis of the text.Most already know the story of Captain Ahab and his obsession with revenge upon the White Whale, the infamous Moby-Dick, and how Ishmael, along with the rest of the crew, get snatched up into Ahab's whirlwind, monomaniac obsession with combating and destroying this one-of-a-kind beast. The story itself could be condensed down into a much smaller text, but Melville's own obsession with the giants of the deep along with his passion for sailing shines through in long winded chapters describing details that the common reader may not care to know. That being said, it is often a difficult read because of the way it is structured, along with the Shakespearean language and heavy handed motifs. However, the darkness, the depth, the absolute diabolical complexity of the story consumes the reader and draws them along just as inexhaustibly as the Pequod under Ahab's ruling thumb.The novel is an absolute gold mine for critical analysis. It can range from the forces of nature vs. mankind, the expansion of technology upon nature, the terrors of obsession, the heathenism of reality vs. that of cannibals, perhaps the conflict between rationality and obsession, Christianity and the Devil, etc. Well beyond his time, Melville provides the future world with an intellectual cacophony of thought not yet met in American literature during his time on earth. It could be argued that he put American literature on the map for the rest of the world (especially the British juggernauts) and defined the literature that would proceed in the following years once the world caught up to Melville's way of thinking and courageous action of putting it down in typeface.


