1349740800
5.0
review/summary: Ugliesreview/text: Like Matched and The Hunger Games, Uglies takes place in the future. First, you are a littlie and you live with your parents. Second, you are an ugly. When I say ugly I don't mean it was an adjective. I mean it as a label. You become an ugly when you are about eleven or twelve and then you go and live in the dorms in Uglyville. When you are sixteen years old you become a pretty and go to live in New Pretty Town. To become a pretty you have surgery done. Like an ugly, pretty is a label and not an adjective. After a new pretty, then you become a middle pretty, and finally an old pretty. Old pretties go and live in Crumblyville. The people have hover technology and the buildings are also high-tech. Uglies is about a girl named Tally Youngblood who cannot wait to turn into a pretty. Like all uglies, Tally loves to pull tricks because once you turn pretty you stop doing all that kind of stuff. One night when Tally goes off to see her friend Peris in New Pretty Town she meets a girl named Shay. The two of them become friends quickly. In so many ways the two are alike yet different at the same time. They teach each other all the tricks they know and Shay teaches Tally how to ride a hover board. Before the two are going to turn pretty Shay decides to run away. The day Tally is supposed to turn pretty she gets into trouble and has to betray Shay. Tally decides to go and find Shay. When she finds where Shay is, she stays for awhile and meets new people but becomes unsure if she should betray Shay and get all the people who live in the Rusty Ruins (outside of the city) in trouble. Tally discovers what really happens when you have the operation to become pretty and what it is like to live without all the city luxuries. I would recommend this book to those who enjoyed reading The Hunger Games, Matched, or The Giver. There are 3 books in the series and a companion novel. Right now I am currently reading the second book in the series called Pretties.


