1351900800
4.0
review/summary: Middle Earth 101review/text: For those who have seen the Lord of the Rings movie trilogy (or indeed have read the books), and want to find out more about the "back story", J.R.R. Tolkien's The Hobbit may both please and disappoint - the latter, because it is so much lighter, more comedic, less sophisticated, less on the epic scale than LOTR. It is very much a children's book, and one that really should be read aloud in the night to children before bedtime. It is much more lighthearted, and has far fewer truly scary moments. However, it will please those who would like to know more about Hobbits, The Shire, Elves, Dwarves and sundry monstrous creatures that inhabit Middle Earth. The origin of Frodo's orc-detecting sword, Sting, is given; the ancestors (perhaps?) of Shelob are revealed; Bilbo himself, seen only in his great age and not for long in LOTR, is here in the prime of his life and revealing some of the characteristics of practicality and courage that reappear in Frodo. Aside from Ursula K. Le Guin's dragons, which are without parallel, the great Dragon Smaug is among the best I have encountered in fiction, and the description of his loot-filled cave is superb. The lust for gold and jewels experienced by the Dwarves is clearly the precursor of the lethal lust for the One Ring felt by so many in LOTR. Be warned: there is some horror. There is dread and anxiety. The evil creatures of The Hobbit are equally as evil as those in LOTR, but as readers we are less exposed to them, and the mood is soon lightened by the antics of either Bilbo or the Dwarves or both. There is the classic, familiar journey, or Quest; Gandalf fills the role of the wise guide and father-figure (though with less gravitas); there are terrible set-backs, unexpected hurdles, ghastly encounters and a fabulous battle scene, prefiguring the great battles of LOTR. Basically, The Hobbit is LOTR writ small, funnier, lighter and a lot shorter, but no less satisfying as a story for all that.


