1346025600
3.0
review/summary: Aint even gonna frontreview/text: Im going to start by saying that I did not finish this book. Now before anyone starts to get all hype and accusatory let me finish. My husband's cousin who is still in her 20's read this book and she gave it to me (which I thought was odd because I am married to her cousin but anywho)I never got around to finishing the book because when the hubs saw it he took it from me. 2 days later he was talking to me about the book he finished it in 2 days and would not shut up about it lol. So I decided to do the lamest thing ever and have all three of us sit down and talk about some points. From my husbands point (he is to embarassed to leave a review) he said what attracted him to me was the fact that I was not "needy" he said the fact that I didn't give in to him so easy made him intrigued and really want to show me that he was the one and it worked cause we are married. PS I didnot know I was resisting him I just wasn't interested at first lol:) He also went on to say that the author made some good points about avoiding the cooking in black nighties business meaning don't give it away so easily if the guy looses interest oh well he didn't deserve your body (his words not mine). Remember every situation is relative so ladies if you are interested in a guy try to "customize" your case feel the guy out. If he seems sensitive then don't hurt his feelings or string him along it is unecessary because men have feelings to (his words not mine). If it does become serious and he's in it for the long haul it is no reason to act like some power hungry CEO open up to the man and show him why he wanted you in the first place afterall he stuck in their with you.I think the point of this book is that women shouldn't feel like they cant speak up my cousin-in-law has felt that way we have talked about it before I even knew there was such a book.If your needy then girlfriend who am I to tell you that it wont win a man over some men may need that type of women and you shouldn't change it just because a couple guys are turned on by rebellion. If your a Drop Dead Diva then be you and don't back down and stay head strong. The person you are supposed be with will love you for you. I think people are taking this book to serious if you don't like the book so be it re-sell or give it away. The hubs has lost the book so I do plan on finishing it but I have to find it first. But I hope this helps.


