1355270400
5.0
review/summary: The monster "had" a heartreview/text: There are several good reasons for reading FRANKENSTEIN, by Mary Shelley.First, it's an excellent example of literature of the English Romantic period. It has the Gothic element as exemplified by its eerie monster; the detailed appreciation of nature with its descriptions of lakes, mountains, forests, and ice floes; and the idealization of the common man in its central characterization of the humble DeLaceys, who are at first so much admired by the monster.Second, it is the first example of science fiction in English literature, as science is used to create human life in the laboratory. Some may argue that the third voyage of GULLIVER'S TRAVELS is also science fiction with its flying island, thus making FRANKENSTEIN the first complete novel in this genre.Third, the plot of the novel is an intricate frame story that contains not one, not two, but three narratives. The outside frame consists of the epistolary technique--a series of letters exchanged between Captain Robert Walton and his sister, Margaret. Walton is exploring the North Pole region on his ship when he sights first a giant who is fleeing across the ice and then shortly afterward Victor Frankenstein in a physically diminished state. Walton rescues Frankenstein, who was pursuing the nameless, eight-foot tall creature. Frankenstein then proceeds to tell his life story in an extended flashback.A brilliant student, Frankenstein's reach exceeds his grasp when he makes the decision to play God. Using recycled body parts of humans and animals and his knowledge of chemistry, he creates a monster with yellow eyes and yellow, almost transparent skin, so hideous looking that Frankenstein abandons his creation as soon as the thing opens its watery eyes. The monster disappears, and Frankenstein himself is ill for a period of time. Eventually he learns of the death of his young brother, supposedly killed by his caretaker, who is subsequently tried and executed. Frankenstein suspects otherwise and eventually confronts his ghastly creation, who confesses.This confession, which is the third narrative, will wring the heart of the reader, and this account is the finest part of Shelley's novel. The monster has frightening encounters with humans and so eventually hides near the cottage of the DeLacey family. He watches them, falls in love with their humble lifestyle, and does farm chores for them at night in secret. By listening to them, he learns to speak and by borrowing their books, again at night, he learns to read. Thus he becomes the educated creature confessing to Victor Frankenstein. Finally, the monster gets up the courage to reveal himself, first to the blind DeLacey grandfather, but when he is discovered by the adult children, all hell literally breaks loose.I cannot emphasize enough how poignant and heart-breaking this section of the novel is. After his rejection by the DeLaceys, the monster burns down their cottage and eventually murders his creator's brother. Now he asks Victor Frankenstein to have mercy on him--by creating a mate for him! It will be a new Eve for the new Adam, and Frankenstein reluctantly agrees. However, when the time comes to do the deed, he cannot bring himself to bring another monster into the world.What follows is a continuation of Victor's story and then Walton's--it is a tale of madness, mayhem, and murder that eventually ends in self-destruction on the ice floes of the North Pole.


