1354406400
4.0
review/summary: Review by J. Colanninoreview/text: Well, this is only the second work of fiction I have reviewed and the first of its genre that I have ever read. As many may know, the novel is much different than the movie adaptation.In the novel, Frankenstein's "daemon" or "monster" is highly articulate, intelligent, and agile. A creature standing eight foot tall, he scales mountains with superhuman ease and endures temperatures and hardships that would fell a mortal man. Created by Victor Frankenstein from overly large parts (for ease of construction), the good doctor is instantly horrified by his creation and immediately abandons it. Forced to experience life without reference, and rebuffed by humanity, the creature experiences the psychological pain of being rejected for nothing more than his grotesque appearance. Over time he learns to speak and read by secretly observing a family as they teach a newly arrived immigrant the ways of society and language. He first introduces himself to the family's blind patriarch and performs many secret good deeds for them. But disaster soon follows when the sighted members of the family discover the monster and drive him away. This, along with other disastrous encounters with humanity, vow him to destroy his creator, Victor Frankenstein.However, in Chapter 10 we learn of the monster's harrowing life experiences through his own first-person narrative. And though he has unintentionally suffocated Victor's young brother, the monster vows never to kill again, if only the good doctor will make for him a bride to ease his loneliness. Although conflicted, Dr. Frankenstein reluctantly agrees and travels from Geneva to England to complete this work. However, in the midst of his second creation he sees the first monster jeering with delight in the moonlight. Frankenstein contemplates the horror he might unwittingly unleash upon mankind were he to create another terrible beast. At that thought, he destroys the half-made bride, enraging the monster who promises to destroy his creator on his wedding day. This he does by murdering his family members one by one, beginning with Dr. Frankenstein's new wife. At the last, Victor Frankenstein succumbs to grief and exposure near the arctic circle, where he has chased the monster with a view to destroy him.In the last pages, the monster encounters the ship's captain who has befriended Dr. Frankenstein in the last days of his life upon encountering him on an ice floe in polar waters. Indeed, the entire story is told through the captain's letters to his sister. The book ends with the monster confronting the captain and recounting his extreme sadness and conflict at the death of his creator. The monster leaves the captain unharmed after the creature reveals his intention to commit suicide by immolation for all the evil he has caused.By modern horror standards, the book is quite tame. Yet it leaves the reader to contemplate the unintended consequence of mankind's overreach into the affairs of God. The book is all the more remarkable considering that Mary Shelley wrote it after she turned 18 years of age, finishing it and seeing it published at age 19. Despite this, the vocabulary and polished textual style are those of a person easily twice her age, and her knowledge of the Bible, Milton and other works of literature and poetry are all the more remarkable. The book was originally written as a warning against 19th century galvanism; at the time electricity was being applied to animate corpses and many wondered at the possibility of artificial life and contemplated its theological consequences. This debate that has been renewed today in the wake of the abject failure of embryonic stem cell research (in contrast to adult stem-cell research which has shown many benefits). If good lessons are best taught through good stories, Mary Shelley's Frankenstein surely deserves to be read. All the better that the novel is less than 200 pages.


