1359244800
4.0
review/summary: Interesting start for my first James Patterson experiencereview/text: I borrowed this book from the library because my little brother has to read it in class, and I figured he might need some help understanding it with it being by James Patterson and all. This is officially my first James Patterson book and it's quite good for that age range. I have no problem that my brother will (mostly) understand it, and that he may actually enjoy it. He's not a big reader- other than Naruto, Diary of a Wimpy Kid and Captain Underpants- so I should probably reserve judgement on whether he'll enjoy it, or even finish it."We were bird kids, a flock of six. And the Erasers wanted to kill us." (26)Max and the rest of her mutant flock are a rare breed that have been experimented on and tortured before breaking loose and finding their safe haven. After being found and kidnapped by their torturers, they must find and keep freedom again all while searching for answers of their past and evolving their own powers. They learn that flying isn't all they can do. In a rush of fast paced adventure, Max, Fang, Gasman, Iggy, Nudge and little Angel try to survive the Whitecoats and Erasers on their journey of liberation and self-discovery."Sometimes it felt as if we would never be free, be safe. Never, ever, as long as we lived. Which might not be that much longer, anyway." (326)On my part, I found the adventure that Max and her flock are thrust into, quite thrilling. On the other hand, 134 chapters+ Prologue+ Epilogue is extremely excessive, especially since the chapters were only 2-3 pages long and could have easily been combined. Perhaps this is a method by Patterson to make his young reader's feel like they have achieved a lot, but I'm not sure. I also found everything in the book to become redundant. Repetitive actions and scenarios just added more paper throughout the book and just kept putting the characters through the same ringer every time. Something else that nagged me in the book (mostly during the first, oh, 40 chapters) is how we, the reader, continued to be put through switches of point of view. Sometimes it would be in first and second person (Max) and then other times it would be in third person. After a while I just shrugged it off and ignored it because after a certain point it only continued in first person. All this being said, I did like the plot and with the unfinished ending I may, one day, seek out the next book in the series and give it a read. I'm also more interested in reading other James Patterson works as well, and as I found while browsing in the bookstore, there's a lot out there."Is it important to be right or is it important to do what's right? That's one of the hardest lessons to learn." (427)First Line: "Congratulations. The fact that you're reading this means you've taken one giant step closer to surviving till you next birthday." (1)Last Line: "You know, Voice, I thought finally, my friends are my world."---------Quotes"It's in my nature to fight for the underdog. Jeb had always told me it was my fatal flaw. Jeb had been right." (79)


