1349568000
5.0
review/summary: A Powerful, Timeless Classicreview/text: The Great Gatsby is a timeless classic that can be appreciated decades after its publication. The mysterious Gatsby looms over the lethargic beginning, but as he comes into focus the novel becomes enthralling. The mysterious Gatsby is at first depicted as a wealthy, powerful man, but shocking irony reveals the truth. Gatsby's love for Daisy has driven him to an extravagant lifestyle. Gatsby, once portrayed as the wealthiest and most powerful man in New York, was nothing more than a hopeless romantic. Gatsby is further berated - Daisy's wife, Tom, accuses Gatsby of criminal activities and involvement. Nonetheless, Gatsby and Daisy still meet privately on several occasions, and Gatsby's ornate portrayal of Daisy is not fulfilled. Over the years, Gatsby has exalted Daisy with his immense wealth and imagination.The overarching theme throughout the novel is exactly that mentioned above. Gatsby's exalting of Daisy has turned her into nothing more than a possession in his mind. This can be paralleled to the American Dream, the desire for success, prosperity, wealth, and a family. Gatsby can never have Daisy because of his immense wealth, an ironic cynical idea that was likely portrayed since this novel was written in the midst of the Great Depression. Another theme parodies the constant quest for money in America. The upper class, repented by Gatsby, is motivated by greed and desire. On the surface, the upper class appear superior an powerful, but in reality they are so desperate that they seek wealth to fill the hole in their personal American Dream.Overall, the Great Gatsby is a timeless classic, brilliantly written on multiple levels. The entire storyline brilliantly parallels and satires the quest for wealth, needs, and desires. F. Scott Fitzgerald's writing is elegant yet precise. As previously mentioned, the beginning, though lethargic and descriptive, is still intriguing. At first, the verbose details may seem extraneous, but it proves to be a great beginning to an amazing novel.


