1350086400
4.0
review/summary: Extraordinary Tale of Horrorreview/text: After all these years of my morbid fascination with vampires, shame on me for never having read this classic. What an extraordinary tale of horror. Vampires are to be feared, not admired as they are nowadays. It wasn't as grim or as raunchy as I expected it to be. Hollywood's movie version slandered it with explicit nudity and abhorrent bestiality. From the first few chapters Bram Stoker expertly sets an eerie impression. The introduction to Count Dracula's castle was the spark of it all. Dracula's greeting "Welcome to my house! Enter freely and of your own free will!" was utterly creepy. Another such comment he made about the wolves howling in the distance "Listen to them--the children of the night. What music they make." Little details like his home being next to a lunatic asylum made it all the more rich with intrigue. The defining scene for me was Jonathan witnessing the Count's descent from his bedroom; "I saw the whole man slowly emerge from the window and begin to crawl down the castle wall over the dreadful abyss, face down with his cloak spreading out around him like great wings." The imagery is so vivid. That scene was chilling. I am amazed at Stoker's imagination having created such a unique formidable villain that has stood the test of time. The original vampire in all his glory. It was interesting finding out Dracula's supernatural gifts: the strength of ten men, necromancy, directing the elements such as a storm, fog, and thunder, having command over rats, owls, bats, moths, foxes, and wolves, and finally the ability to transform into a wolf, a bat, or mist. Impressive.On a tangent, I wondered if the phrase "if looks could kill" originated from this novel? I loved the contrast of Lucy's transformation from sweet innocence to voluptuous wantonness with hellfire in her eyes. It was somewhat laborious reading at times due to the language of the Victorian era, however, the absorbing storyline quickly overshadowed that. Overall it was not outright terrifying; rather it was a subtle unnerving of sorts. I enjoyed Van Helsing and his abrupt nature and the mystery of Count Dracula. The cat and mouse chase between the two characters was like a chess match between two equally intelligent opponents. The build-up during the hunting of Dracula was incredibly suspenseful followed by an ending that sadly was swift and anti-climactic, yet it still thrilled me.


