1347321600
5.0
review/summary: Andrew N's Reviewreview/text: Have you ever had a half-giant knock on your door and tell you that you were a famous wizard? Well, Harry Potter has! During his time at his wizarding school, he encounters trolls, three-headed dogs, and evil professors out to get him. Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone deserves all of its five stars. It includes diverse and memorable characters, action scenes, and major plot twists.There are a ton of memorable characters in the Harry Potter. One of the special characters is Hagrid. You can see why Hagrid was interesting because at one point, Hagrid "hit the door with such force that it swung clean off its hinges and with a deafening crash landed on the floor." Another memorable character is Uncle Vernon, Harry's uncle. You can tell Uncle Vernon is amusing because when he yells out "Silence!" and a couple of spiders fell from the ceiling. One last memorable character I'd like to take note of is Aunt Petunia. One quote that's stuck in my mind is, "I was the only one who saw her for what she was, a freak!"Besides having memorable characters, there are lots of action scenes in the story that you won't forget. You can definitely tell how this action quote was interesting because, "There was a pause. Then SMASH!" Another memorable action scene quote is, "There was a sudden rummaging for quills for parchment." The last memorable action scene quote by Harry is, "He was going to smash right into that barrier and then he'd be in trouble."There are also plot twists in Harry Potter that are sure to leave an impression in your mind. One major plot twist is when Hagrid tells Harry, "Y'er a wizard." Another major plot twist occurs when Draco says, "You don't understand, Professor! Harry Potter's coming - he's got a dragon." The last major plot twist is revealed by Harry when he says, "Snape wants the stone for Voldemort....and all this time we thought Snape just wanted to get rich..."To conclude, this epic story, Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone, has lots of action, memorable characters, and major plot twists that will leave you awestruck. With its fast-paced Quidditch matches, heinous professors out to get certain orphans, and mind-bending plot twists, this adventurous family novel will last through the ages. And let's not forget the memorable quotes, as Harry Potter just wouldn't be complete without lines such as: "But yeh must know about yer mom and dad. I mean, they're famous. You're famous."


