1351641600
5.0
review/summary: "Until you've lost your reputation, you never realize what a burden it was or what freedom really is."- (p. 268-9) Rhett Butlerreview/text: First and foremost, Gone with the Wind has no mundane narratives, heartwarming and heart-rending from page 1 to 1448, 1448 was not enough!Brace thyself to be swept away by the Old South. If you heard this is a novel which glorifies racism and the age of slavery, you are misinformed; magnanimity is quite a virtue fellow savant.A captivating theme supported by characters with character, what more dost thou needeth? GWTW is a Pre-Civil War novel which portrays the monstrous adversities Southerners were manhandled to weather upon the slaughter of their civilization and way of life. For those attempting to prevail over a disheartening tragedy, GWTW shall inspire thee to walk the path of Rhett Butler or Scarlett O'Hara, for it once had for I (I, a former Ashley), though I held onto my chimerical nature. Wikipedia relays an excellent analysis of the characters, better than my own.People believe Southerners were fighting to defend slavery and the Confederacy, and I am sure a number of the arrogant wealthy landowners were, but the majority of Southerners were simply defending their homes and those they love. What would you do if an army was en route to your town and will pillage, burn, and commit unspeakable horrors unto your town's women, welcome 'em with open arms? Unlikely, unless you are gutless or a damn fool. You would, like I, commit monstrous acts to all extents, even if it were to leave you a corpse. I can go into historical detail debunking many fallacies people have about those who fought for the Confederacy, but it would serve little purpose, try reading the quote at the end of this review. GWTW is a Pulitzer Prize winner, it is doubtful that it would have been awarded such an honor if it were based on a horde of slack-jawed yokels praising slavery. GWTW is a novel of epic proportions, I highly recommend it.The 1939 film cannot compare in depth to the novel itself, but it is damn good for 1939. Clark Gable's performance was praiseworthy, such fiery passion, and Vivien Leigh, wow! What a powerhouse she is, almost intimidating, but in a cute classy way, if that makes sense, especially when she says "I will not listen-" (p. 1306)Memorable scene:Scarlett: [pleads with Rhett as he is about to leave to join the Confederate Army] Oh, Rhett! Please, don't go! You can't leave me! Please! I'll never forgive you!Rhett Butler: I'm not asking you to forgive me. I'll never understand or forgive myself. And if a bullet gets me, so help me, I'll laugh at myself for being an idiot. There's one thing I do know... and that is that I love you, Scarlett. In spite of you and me and the whole silly world going to pieces around us, I love you. Because we're alike. Bad lots, both of us. Selfish and shrewd. But able to look things in the eyes as we call them by their right names.Scarlett: [struggles] Don't hold me like that!Rhett Butler: [holds her tighter] Scarlett! Look at me! I've loved you more than I've ever loved any woman and I've waited for you longer than I've ever waited for any woman.[kisses her forhead]Scarlett: [turns her face away] Let me alone!Rhett Butler: [forces her to look him in the eyes] Here's a soldier of the South who loves you, Scarlett. Wants to feel your arms around him, wants to carry the memory of your kisses into battle with him. Never mind about loving me, you're a woman sending a soldier to his death with a beautiful memory. Scarlett! Kiss me! Kiss me... once...[he kisses her]Random quote from Gettysburg (1993):"Virginians! Virginians! For your lands! For your homes! For your sweethearts! For your wives! For... Virginia! Forward... march!- Brigadier General Lewis Armistead


