1348012800
5.0
review/summary: "the" Great American Novelreview/text: Have you ever had a book that you did not want to end? Because it sucked you in, grabbed your heart, transported you to a place and a time you did not want to leave? If so, you have been lucky. If not, this is the book. It has captivated me since I first read it in middle school, and I read it at least once a year.The title refers to a tree that only grows in Brooklyn. No one plants it, no one really tends it, they don't want it, but there, stuck in the cement, often deprived of sunlight, the tree grows into a thing of beauty. This is the story of Francie Nolan, a child growing up in slums of turn of the century Brooklyn, and her family, Neeley, her little brother, Johnnie, her drunkard father, and Katie, her mother, who works hard and doesn't have time for her dreamy daughter. The story follows Neeley and Francie as they grow up and deal with life's trials and small joys, all while beautifully describing their community in a way that places the reader in Brooklyn and makes you yearn for life to be like that again, even just a minute.I have read other books by Betty Smith, and this is, by far, her best book. Francie is such a lovely, well-drawn character. The reader can not help but feel for her as she deals with the sometimes rough life she has been given. When the children go to the doctor after playing in the dirt all day and a nurse makes rude comments about dirty children, we hurt because Francie hears her and hurts, and cheer her for standing up to the nurse, and, when the children earn a Christmas tree by letting the seller throw it at them (a tradition), we cheer because they've come out ahead in a world where that doesn't happen often. I laugh at the events of their trip to the shore with their father and a neighbor child because it reminds me of the good-intentioned but poorly-executed day trips of my childhood. But we WANT Francie to succeed, for her to be OK in the end. It's hard to find many books that make you care about a character so deeply and this book does it so well.I look forward to the day when I can read this with my daughter and let her discover the beauty of the story.


