1344902400
5.0
review/summary: Night - Elie Weiselreview/text: Night by Elie WieselI have had Night sitting on my shelf for years. My mom bought it for me and read it right away. I stuck it on the shelf and forgot about it. Despite being Jewish, I've never been a fan of Holocaust literature, whether fiction or non-fiction. It's not that I'm not interested in learning about it. I definitely am. It's a part of my history and being informed is the way only I can inform others and explain away the misconceptions that people have about that period in history. Everything I know about the Holocaust is self-taught, because it was only glossed over in the history classes that I took. So for me, anything I read about it is in a capacity of educating myself.Night takes us through Mr. Wiesel's time in Buchenwald and Aucshwitz, during World War II. His simplistic writing style takes us through major events in such a way that we feel as if we are there. The simple language is deceiving, because usually that means something is easy to read, but in this case, it's not. The horrors he experienced are such that it makes hell seem like a walk in the park. Imagine being crammed in a train with hundreds of other people, not knowing where your next meal, if you can call it that, is going to come from. Imagine being surrounded by the dead and dying and not being able to give people a proper burial. He had no idea what happened to his mother and sister after they were separated.Night is the first in a trilogy that continues with Dawn and ends with Day. Wiesel has called these last two transition books. He has said "In Night, I wanted to show the end, the finality of the event. Everything came to an end - man, history, literature, religion, G-d. There was nothing left. And yet we begin again with night." I haven't decided yet if I will read the remaining two in the series. If I do, it will not be right now. Reading Night was difficult. I only read a few pages at a time, partially because I couldn't handle it and partially because I needed time to think between sections. It's a lot to take in all at once.The entire time I was reading it, I had Matisyahu's song, One Day, running through my head. If you haven't heard the song, stop now and listen to it.Okay. Now that you've listened to it, you can probably see why I had that song running through my head. I firmly believe Night should be required reading for everyone.5 out of 5 stars.Copy obtained from my personal library.


