1349049600
4.0
review/summary: Society's judgment can greatly impact our aspirationsreview/text: I enjoyed reading this novel mostly because of the rich text and language Dickens used to display the imagery. Dickens wrote this piece in such detail that allows the audience to fully engage in the text, relate to Pip and his struggles, and bring a deeper thought to the way we treat our individual social statuses. As citizens of the United States, we are obligated to work our way to "the top of the food chain". The majority of the time, we are not given a high status, by blood or other means, to build a superior reputation for ourselves. Therefore we must have the will and determination to make our personal goals become reality. In Great Expectations, Pip's struggles and adventures are great examples of how the audience can relate to the story line and setting throughout the novel to our own personal lives.I thought that Dickens' creatively demonstrated that an individual's social status is not what determines the rights of respect and standards on a person's character. The ability to prove our greater meaning in this world is not something that the government can label us on. As humans, we have the right to make mistakes and errors in life, but out of the morals and standards in which we uphold allow us to make those mistakes result in a learning experiences. Pip strives to become a better man throughout the novel for various reasons. However, Great Expectations allows us to see the connection between the book and real life. In both situations there are/ will be countless obstacles getting in the way of ambitions we set. When Pip decides to leave Joe behind and pursuit his ambitions of becoming a true gentleman he made a decision, much like Dickens himself, to benefit his own life. With any decision there must be great responciblity and will.Personally, I strongly believe that anyone can improve their well-being within a reasonable manner. Only with dedication and support from relatives or friends can one truly achieve their goal. Sometimes our goals don't have the exact result we wished for, but we should be grateful for what we have and work hard for what we want to improve. What I have learned from this book is that no matter what your status is in school, work, at home, or in society as a whole, we all have the ability to make something greater of ourselves. Each individual has the capability to achieve all of ambitions in life we wish to imagine.


