1352073600
5.0
review/summary: Horrors of the mindreview/text: This classic horror tale has, a bit surprisingly, its greatest horrors as horrors of the mind. To be sure, there are some horrible events, but the most severe horrors are those that transpire within the minds of Victor Frankenstein, and again surprisingly, to his creation, also referred to as his monster or daemon. The story is well known. An excited young Frankenstein believes he has deduced the means to create life. Shelley is mercifully scant with the details of his collecting parts and induing (a word Shelley likes and uses more than once) life. The tale is told by a sea captain in the Arctic Ocean, recorded as Frankenstein told it to him. As a young man, Frankenstein himself has a sharp mind and a positive spirit, and a family that's brought him up in a serene Geneva environment. The gist of the story is the excitement leading to Frankenstein's creation, and the sequelae of that action. The creation is not initially a brute. An intrinsic part of the story is how he becomes one. Influencing that transition strongly is the effect of rejection and isolation based only on external appearance. Also intrinsic is the effect this creation has on its creator. Both Frankenstein and the monster face issues of sanity, both of them losing it to one degree or another as the book progresses. The details are yours to read. The writing is lovely and clear to the modern reader. Issues involved in the story include the causes and effects of being socially isolated, the responsibilities a creator has to his creation and society, particularly when those responsibilities conflict, and to what degree one is bound by one's commitment in the face of uncertainty about it. In some ways, the relationship between Frankenstein and his creation changes over time, becoming almost synergistic or symbiotic. Well sequenced, clearly told, and provoking strong emotion in the reader to go with strong emotion in the characters, most often Frankenstein, but also the monster. Brilliant and worthy of its status as a classic.


