1359244800
4.0
review/summary: Interesting and original idea, but just a tiny bit frustrating at timesreview/text: "In a world of extreme beauty, anyone normal is ugly."Tally Youngblood is an ugly awaiting her surgery that will transform her into a pretty and send her on her way to New Pretty Town. All of her friends have already turned pretty, but since her birthday is in September, she is the last one waiting in Ugly Town. While turning a trick one night(not the kind of tricking you are thinking) she meets Shay, who believes there is something more to life than being pretty and partying all day and night. Tally has never heard of someone reluctant to be turned pretty. When Shay runs away to the far off land she has been mentioning, Tally is worried. But then the authorities give her a choice - find Shay, or never turn Pretty.I enjoyed this book. It certainly isn't my favorite in the world of dystopian books, but it did hold my attention from the beginning. It is a very interesting premise that everyone must be pretty to avoid conflicts. In a perfect world, this would simply make people equal, which would eradicate jealousy and judging someone from their looks. But it's not quite as simple as it all seems. I can't say much more without giving away spoilers, and I don't usually like spoilers in reviews. For me, there are two major morals to this story: 1) Looks are not nearly as important as we make them out to be, that your imperfections can make you beautiful, and having surgery to make you look more like someone else is not the answer. 2) Forcing someone to do something just because it is the right thing to do makes you no better than someone with bad intentions forcing someone to do something so that they fit into their idea of the world. I hope that makes sense. I don't know how else to word that.The one thing that did bother me is the secret that Tally holds on to the whole book. I was constantly holding my breath to see if she was going to let it out, or if the other characters would find out some other way. If she had told the secret earlier, I may have given it 5 stars. But the fact that she kept it made me look at her a little differently. I was nervous, knowing that the secret would ruin her and I was anticipating this the whole time, not able to really focus on the relationships she was building with other characters.This book definitely has a cliff hanger ending that makes me want to immediately start the next book to see what happens. Some people appreciate these endings, some don't. As long as the next book is already released by the time I am reading it, I am fine with them. That is why I wait until a whole series is finished to start reading them. Now, onto the next book:Pretties!(I encourage you to comment and vote on my reviews on whether or not the are helpful. I welcome constructive criticism. I am trying to improve my reviews so I can start a book blog. Thanks!)


