1355961600
5.0
review/summary: Producers Vs Parasitesreview/text: REVIEW OF AYN RAND'S "ATLAS SHRUGGED"Antonony T. Riggio 4-28-10Having dodged reading Atlas shrugged in college, primarily because of its intimidating size and scope, recently, I have read many comments about how this book foretold current times in our country and world more than fifty years ago.Having set out to read this tome, I ordered it on Amazon, specifically ordering the hard bound edition. What I did not realize when I received this book that it was really a paper back sized book with a hard cover binding. Each page was filled with over 500 words, in your typical paperbound book sized font. With a total of 1,070 pages in this edition, we are talking over a half a million words. I read about 100 pages and struggled with my aging eyesight to grasp what was presented. I then searched several libraries to find a bona fide hard bound edition which came out in 1995. The print was a bit larger but still over 1,000 pages of text. I learned in my search for a normal hard bound edition that the 1995, 35th edition was the last printing of this book. The copy I bought from Amazon was the 50th Anniversary edition and came out in 2007. The original publication of Atlas Shrugged was in 1957, though it was written in the late 1940's.The book took me about 100 pages before I got a flavor for the worth of this book. When I got the library edition, it was much easier to read and my reading time was accelerated accordingly.Ayn Rand's character development was initially difficult to follow but soon took on a flow which captured and held my interest.The story is a complicated struggle between prominant industrialists from several industries concentrating on the Railroad and Steel business', and their struggle with government bureaucrats bent on social issues and progress.The capitalists represented what was bad for society and how selfish the industrialist were in their seeking profits. On the other side the beauractats were the "white hats", looking out for the concerns of the "people", both the working class and the non achievers in our society.As government became bigger and issued more and more controls over industry and transportation in an effort to create equalness, the white hats became the black hats and the industrialists the victims of opressive regulations.The bureaucrats developed into the champions of the non producers and the arch enemies of productivity and consequently creativity. The industialists are forced into an ever tightening corner in view of oppresssive regulations thus limiting and styming both production and creativity. The result is a complete withdrawal of producers resulting in the absolute failure of government.The hero of the story John Galt is for most of the book a near fictional character with many different stories about this existance and origin. Not until chapter seven do we actually hear from John Galt and his intentions based on his philosophy based on moral values to destroy the beauracrats, now being refered to as "looters" who have stalled completely any productive growth in any industry in the country and the slow but constant decline of companies and people.Dagny Taggart, an heiress to the Taggart Railroad is the idealist heroine who struggles against the looters and tries to keep the railroad in operation as industries are failing all around her. Dagny is struggling to find both meaning to life and her ideal of love. The post coital dialog between two lovers is the most interesting and somewhat astonishing verbal exchange I have ever read but notwithstanding the negatives of the conversation the two become true heroes of the book.Ayn Rand is both a suberb story teller, albeit with lots of words but also a philosopher advocating the the continued accomplishments of man while condeming the haners on. She would be appalled to see the direction our country and the world is taking today.My one criticism of her philosophy is that it does not truly recognize a higher power and man is a creation of himself and not a creature burdened by "Original Sin" therefore God's importance is diminished accordingly.The book is worth the read especially in today's political, economic and social struggles.


