1348099200
5.0
review/summary: Prescient look at the future by a keen observerreview/text: Brave New World by Aldous Huxley is a keen observation of the possibilities that could take place in the future if the presnt trends of the day continued. Huxley envisioned a future where social and genetic engineering altered the fundamental nature of human life. The bureaucratic nature of government continued to expand and had a more restrictive influence on human freedoms. The government had a systematic program for indoctrinating children to conform to the accepted social constructs of the day.People lost their revoultuionary fervor because they had an illusion of freedom. The people in Brave New World lived a hedonistic lifestyle where unlimited sexual gratification and the use of the pleasure drug soma caused few people to question the controversial measures of governmental and bureaucratic institutions. Huxley displayed a keen insight that people would seek to escape the confines of modern life and seek excitement in more primitive environments. People went on vacation in "Savage Reservations." In a way, Huxley predicted the popularity of shows like "Survivor."The plot of the story is fanciful and outrageous. Brave New World is not a great book from a literary standpoint. However, it is an important commentary of the dangers of social and genetic engineering. Huxley was right on by inferring that people in modern society would tend to stop paying attention to important political and cultural developments and seek to insulate themselves in a fantasy world of pleasure. This can be seen in the fact that large segments of American society protested the Vietnam War while few paid much attention to American developments in the conflicts with Afghanistan and Iraq. People were too busy playing fantasy sports, video games, posting on social media sites, and completely absorbing themselves in the products of the entertainment industry.Despite any weaknesses in the book, Brave New World is an essential read for those who are concerned at the eroding civil liberties in America. Huxley was a keen observer who has a lot of important things to say. Don't be distracted by the more ridiculous developments of the plot. A deeper analysis of the governmental policies and the resulting constructs of the core values promoted in the society make this an illuminating commentary on the dangerous trends of the current day.


