1362182400
5.0
review/summary: Hey Old Sport, This is the Great American Tragedyreview/text: Originally published in 1925, The Great Gatsby is told through the narration of Nick Carraway and his story of living next to the highly eccentric Jay Gatsby on the North Shore of Long Island. The tales of extravagant parties at the great mansion of Jay Gatsby is told with awe by the narrator as he himself becomes involved in the high life style of Mr. Gatsby.Nick Carraway, we find out is a bond salesman working in New York City and living in a small house close by to Gatsby's mansion who comes from the Midwest. The Midwest is also the home of our hero Mr. Gatsby. However as the story unfolds no one seems to really know Gatsby. In fact of his main party extravagances, there seems to be many guests who arrive without invitation and in fact have never seen or associated with the gracious guest.Nick's second cousin also lives in the niche of Long Island which is fictitiously called East Egg. It becomes apparent that Daisy Buchanan is an old heart throb of Jay Gatsby whom she met prior to Gatsby going off to war. The story revolves around Nick and Jay gallivanting around Long Island and New York City where Nick becomes involved with a girlfriend Jordan Baker and Gatsby becomes ruinously involved with Daisy's husband Thomas Buchanan.Along with this continuous scenario we never find out the source of Gatsby's wealth and we find out that the his entr&eacute;e of servants have been replaced by rather dubious characters at the time that Gatsby is in full battle with the Daisy's husband as the summer season on Long Island is fading into early Autumn.Not only is the season fading by Gatsby's hold on his old heart throb is slipping tenuously by a thread with an automobile accident in nearby Queens. The strange enigma of a man who no one seems to know heads straight for a tragedy on Long Island, and in the end it seems if all that had happened never really happened at all. It was as if it was all a Long Island's rich man's dream played out by Midwesterners one and all into an American Tragedy.


