1344384000
3.0
review/summary: Great advice for setting boundaries, too much emphasis on game playingreview/text: Pros: The book is humorous and does have a point. I love the fact that unlike many books on relationships, it is really specific with examples, not vague. It's a great tool to show women how to establish their boundaries so that they don't get walked over and make a man the center of their life, just part of it. Most men claim they want a "nice" woman and they do. But it seems like when a woman may think she's just being nice, being friendly or caring by initiating calls and cooking for him all the time, doing, doing, doing, then a man starts to think she's being too available, not mysterious enough, too accommodating and too motherly. Even guys who are generally nice behave this way towards the woman who is "too nice". And they think it must mean she's desperate and needy. Then he will start withdrawing and the "too nice" woman wonders what when wrong when she was being so loving.. It's sort of like the whole "nice guy" thing that most women get turned off by. This mainly applies to the courtship phase. Masculine men do enjoy the chase and mental challenges when they test you. as much as many will deny it, but I've seen it time and time again. I've been too nice to men, not the degree the book describes but I've experienced similar outcomes from being too nice.Cons: The author says she's not advocating gameplaying but many of her examples were gameplaying..and although she states the book is meant to be humorous, I feel like a lot of women will take these literally. e.g. the girl who pretended she was coming over in the rain, just to get back at the guy who booty called her. Or telling a guy you aren't looking for anything serious when you really are but you're hoping to have him try to win you over. Um many guys will think you really meant you aren't looking for anything serious and proceed with a casual relationship or look for a woman who does want something. That IS gameplaying and hoping to manipulate. All that might get a man to continue seeing you but it won't necessarily get his heart.I also take issue with relationship advice that pretty encourages women to "suck it up" and make it seem like we should be in a battle with men and stuff emotions down, and Argov does this frequently. It's as though she's encouraging women to be more like "one of the guys" in some ways and telling women to steer away from some of our feminine qualities. I believe in the feminine energy-oriented relationship advice out there for us of expressing authentic feelings and just not being dramatic and making your man feel blamed (as we wouldn't want to feel blamed too, right?) Otherwise we're being artificial. So I disagree with where she says to state things in a more "business like manner" such as "I think that" or you will seem "too emotional". That's just putting walls up and I think this all may just give more connection but not deep romantic commitment. It's definitely better to express authenticity and vulnerability using the phrase "I feel",again without being too dramatic.I still give it 3 stars for it's humor and that it did such a great job in stressing that you have to teach a man how to treat you and showing you how to do it. That was the best piece I got out of it. But really check out the materials out there that stress and focus on the parts regarding feminine energy and being open... that's a more authentic way of being and will get you to love without the gameplaying.


