1360627200
4.0
review/summary: Rough Men Stand Ready in the Nightreview/text: I was led to the Jack Reacher novels by the release of the 2013 movie. The movieJack Reacheris actually based on One Shot, this 2005 9th book in Lee Child's series. One Shot was an exciting, fast, fun read, and I was thoroughly engrossed and entertained from start to finish.Reacher is a rough, tough character with a military police background. Now "retired" and for the most part a drifter, Reacher seems to be as much of a military police expert as he is an expert in finding trouble and fixing it. However, now as an "independent", unlike the traditional methods used by police, Reacher--while extremely intelligent--prefers the methods of Rambo to exact his justice.I understand that Tom Cruise did a decent job with the portrayal of Reacher in the movie, but I am looking forward to the Blu Ray release so that I can see for myself. Cruise would be a much smaller Reacher than that of the guy in the book who stands 6'5" and actually crushes a guy the size of Stallone in his bare hands. So we'll see how that adaptation goes.Anyway, in One Shot Jack Reacher learns that a guy that he used to be in the military with (14 years ago I think it was) is accused of an atrocious crime. So Reacher makes his way to Indiana to investigate. Turns out the guy accused of the atrocity asked the cops to "find Reacher" as one of the only statements after his arrest, because Reacher may be the only guy that could put doubt behind the accusation. This of course doesn't make him any friends in the local police department who think that they have an air-tight case, and Reacher's presence certainly wouldn't sit well with anyone trying to frame the guy. Anyone trying to frame the accused might go out of their way to make life literally difficult for Reacher, but making life difficult for Jack Reacher is usually more hazardous to the health of the bad guy than it is to Reacher.One shot was a great read. Prior to One Shot, I read the first in the series calledKilling Floorthat kind of stretched the limits of believability. One Shot, while extreme at times with its own implausibilities, is a more mature work and definitely worth reading if you like a good action/thriller.Reacher said nothing.


