1360800000
5.0
review/summary: Surprisingly Entertainingreview/text: When I started reading "The Hobbit," I was so bored. I never thought I could finish reading it and actually enjoy it. Around the sixth chapter, "The Hobbit" picked up the pace and became interesting. It surprised me that I was actually entertained by reading the book. At the conclusion, I was pleased with the action and the adventure. I was content with the ending also.One of the best parts of "The Hobbit" was not the quest to Lonely Mountain, but watching Bilbo Baggins' transformation. Throughout the book, he developed from a timid hobbit to a smart, stealthy, and more confident hobbit. I liked seeing how his adventures, especially the encounter with the spiders in Mirkwood, positively changed his character. I also enjoyed when Bilbo cleverly came up with a way to escape from Thranduil's imprisonment. The idea of riding down the river in old boxes and barrels was resourceful. He benefited from the quest in ways more profound than leaving with a chest of silver.One of my favorite adventures in the story was when Bilbo met Gollum. I loved when Gollum and Bilbo were engaged in the riddle game. The terms of the game made it more intense to me. If Bilbo happened to get a riddle wrong, Gollum was going to eat him. Personally, I believe it was one of the most important points in the novel. Here, Bilbo finds the amazing invisibility ring that helps him greatly throughout the rest of the quest to Lonely Mountain.J.R.R Tolkien used foreshadowing throughout the novel. The use of foreshadowing made the story more engrossing. When he used foreshadowing, I became more entrenched in reading. Tolkien knew exactly what words and phrases to use to paint a vivid image in my head. Throughout "The Hobbit," I felt like I was actually on the adventure with Bilbo and the thirteen dwarfs. Without the frequent foreshadowing and the dynamic imagery, I personally would not have been as interested throughout "The Hobbit."I would most definitely recommend this book to everyone. While it is challenging to read the first few chapters, once the real adventures begin, you will not be able to put the book down. As someone who does not usually read and enjoy adventure or fantasy novels, I am surprised that I enjoyed "The Hobbit" so much.


