1347148800
5.0
review/summary: My Favorite Novel of All Timereview/text: This beautiful story is ultimately about looking beneath the surface, past skin color and differences in socioeconomic status or station to what defines goodness and what defines evil. Casting aside the shallow boundaries dictated by time and place, Atticus Finch unknowingly passes onto his children a thirst for the truth. Atticus, so needlessly worried about not being enough of a parent since their mother died and providing what Jem and Scout need most, instills in them a boundless curiosity for life and all its inhabitants.Told from the perspective of Scout an extremely astute and precocious child of 6, her daily adventures along with her brother and their close friend, Dill are interwoven into the story of a pivotal court case. Atticus is assigned to defend a black man falsely accused of beating and raping a white woman. The responsibility of upholding the law and offering this man a fair trial along with substantial evidence to indict becomes a monumental challenge as the citizens of a Southern Alabama town in the 1930's are emotionally forced to put aside their masks and reveal their true selves. Just about every human archetype is represented and all are disseminated by Scout who learns the most valued of life's lessons and comes to realize just how remarkable a man her father truly is. What Scout has not yet fully realized is that she is every bit as remarkable and is truly Atticus's daughter.The Mockingbird reference is poetically tied to one of the story's main characters however could easily be applicable to several of them. Scout as well as Jem and Dill exist as strong voices of reason unaffected by social mores and society's expectations. We see this especially in Scout who with childlike innocence and an intelligence that belies her years elicits a call so strong that whether rising to the occasion or falling deeper into a hole, not one can fail to react.Simply told, this is the story that defined winning a case by a belief and the willingness to stand up for what is right, no matter the cost. To Kill A Mockingbird is an unrivaled literary masterpiece.


