1356307200
4.0
review/summary: a nightreadings.com review: Best Book in Middle Earthreview/text: What has always impressed me about Tolkien is the attention to detail he puts into his work, and The Hobbit is no exception. You almost get the feeling that there really is a 'Middle Earth' out there somewhere.The saying "out of the frying-pan and into the fire" comes to mind when I describe The Hobbit to you, because this is a very fast-paced story, though not in the sense that the book is made of one epic battle scene after another. The plot spans over about a year, but the journeying itself is described sparingly while their (often dangerous) encounters with monsters and other races are described in great detail. The downside to this was that the climax seemed a bit rushed,but I enjoyed it nonetheless.The narration is old-fashioned, yet perfectly understandable. It reminded me of my middle grade teacher who used to read out loud to us in class. Sometimes the narrator speaks directly to the reader by commenting on the current happening in the book and it made me feel as if the narrator was letting me in on a secret of his by sharing the story to me.I really liked that Bilbo was, ironically, a very unenthusiastic participant in his own adventure. Though his almost dormant Took family genes, who are known for their odd adventurousness, is what in the end makes Bilbo accept his job as "The Burglar, " I'd dare say he is pretty much dragged into the whole thing. Tolkien uses a simple but effective way to show the great character development that Bilbo makes throughout the story by comparing the two sides of his heritage to each other. When he starts out, Bilbo sees himself as a hundred percent 'Baggins', a respectful and proper hobbit, but later comes to acknowledge that there might be a bit of the adventurous Took in him after all.There are thirteen dwarves (and a wizard) that Bilbo travels with, a number which I found a bit unnecessary. I think that Tolkien could have used half the number of dwarves and it would still have made the same story. Overflow of dwarves aside, I really enjoyed reading The book.


