1357948800
1.0
review/summary: Based on a liereview/text: Out of falsehood nothing good can come. Viktor Frankl devotes a large section of his story to Auschwitz, and claims to have been there for quite some time, noting that "we had to wear the same shirts for half a year, until they had lost all appearance of being shirts." In reality, Frankl spent only a few days in Auschwitz, en route from Theresienstadt to an outcamp of Dachau. As Timothy Pytell, a professor of history at Cooper Union who has researched Frankl observed, a reader of Man's Search for Meaning would "be stunned to discover that Frankl spent only a few days in Auschwitz" and "if truth be told, Frankl's rendition is contradictory and profoundly deceptive." Frankl finally admitted the truth in 1991 when he told the magazine "Possibilities" that "I was in Auschwitz only three or four days [...] I was sent to a barrack and we were all transported to a camp in Bavaria."Frankl left Theresienstadt on October 19, 1944 and arrived at the Dachau sub-camp Kaufering III on October 25, 1944. How then did he come to write his stories of Auschwitz? One cannot avoid concluding that he simply made the stories up. One could also have determined this from Frankl's story of seeing large flames coming out of the Auschwitz crematorium chimneys - a technical impossibility for such installations.One can even identify Frankl's transport from Theresienstadt. But the Auschwitz Chronicle of Danuta Czech gives the following account of his train:"October 20: 1,500 Jewish men, women, and children are sent in an RSHA transport from the ghetto in Theresienstadt. After the selection, 169 women are admitted to the transit camp and 173 men as prisoners to the camp. The men receive Nos. B-13307-B-13479. The remaining 1,158 people are killed in the gas chamber of Crematorium III."Frankl did not receive a number at Auschwitz. According to Danuta Czech's reasoning, which is followed by all the standard histories of Auschwitz, this implies that he was gassed. In reality, he merely stopped at Auschwitz on his way to Kaufering III. Therefore Frankl's real story disproves the story of extermination camp Auschwitz!As for Frankl's philosophy, it amounts to a ponderous meditation on one of Nietzsche's epigrams. Its fame is principally due to the intrigue of the Auschwitz story, which turns out to be fundamentally false.


