1355356800
2.0
review/summary: THIS IS NOT REALLY A NOVEL...review/text: Unless you want to call it one of the worst novels ever written. It IS many other things. It's a sustained metaphor. All the characters are cardboard inventions that are employed metaphorically to support this writers extreme agenda. It's also a sex fantasy. If you read commentary on the author's private life, you'll find that she had to idealize all her relationships and was hypocritical in her discussion of her husband. It's also a philosophic fantasy. She constructs a dream world that has never existed and never will exist.There are a multitude of characters, but when they speak, you can only identify two. What I mean is, it doesn't matter who's talking, there are only two character profiles. There is the SUPER-HERO image of perfection that is Dagny Taggert, John Galt, Hank Reardon, etc., and the craven cowards feeding off the HEROs, i.e. James Taggert, Wesley Mouch, Mr. Thompson, etc.Rand spent years on this book doing everything but editing. That's why it is so many things. But I promise you, there is not one person alive on the planet today that has conscientiously read every word in the book from cover to cover. Such anal attention detail in this case is impossible. The author says the same thing over and Over and OVER. If there were a literary award for exhuberant redundancy, Ayn Rand would have won it. She might have retired it.Because the prose is so laden with redundant philosophic argument, you will find yourself skipping words first, then paragraphs, and even whole pages. Then, you will come to the chapter, "This is John Galt Speaking." and you will likely decide to skip the chapter in its entirety. Should you yield to this challenge--I forced myself to go back and read it through by itself--don't feel guilty. You will have read every coherent thought from that narrative before the chapter opens. And of course, Ms. Rand repeats it all in the action packed finale.The story offered by the book is very interesting; fascinating even. Altruism runs amok, and communist sentiments become policy, then later law. One over achieving SUPER-HERO decides enough is enough and walks out, vowing to "stop the engine of the world." He accomplishes this by recruiting all the other SUPER-HERO characters from society sequentially, spiriting them off to his FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE where a Periclean golden age is being established. As each of these SUPER-HEROs exits the world chaos follows. First, localized chaos from the enterprises they abandon that, of course, no one else is competent or motivated enough to profitably continue; then generalized chaos as the cumulative effect of the departures and the looter mentality of the government combine to ensure nothing works as it once did. (SPOILER AHEAD)The book ends with the SUPER-HEROs planning a return to the world to reclaim and rebuild it, while the view of the world outside the FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE is terribly bleak and depressing. Rand, of course, would never employ the terms SUPER-HERO or FORTRESS OF SOLITUDE, but I feel this more accurately describes her story to you.This book doesn't work on ANY level. As a novel, it fails because there is no depth to any character, and because all the characters fall into pedantic speech patterns that are rhetorically execrable. You find yourself (not just me, I've spoken to other readers)skipping so much rhetoric that you miss actual action changes that are critical to the otherwise interesting story. YOU CAN'T FOLLOW THE STORY BECAUSE IT'S TRAPPED IN RAND'S PHILOSOPHY TEXT!As a work of philosophy its failure is even greater! Its premises are based on a worldview of the way Rand would have liked things to be, not as they were or are. In short, the OBJECTIVIST ignores reality. That's a pretty subjective place to be. The world includes all sorts of people. If they are to live together, the resulting polity must have a method of dealing with each and every one of them. The societies that have been the most successful either got more productivity from their lower classes, or were able to maintain them at the lowest possible cost, or both. Rands did neither. Rand wants a non-coercive society where everyone pulls his own weight and lives in harmony with his neighbor without any expectation that the neighbor will do anything for him that is uncompensated. A WORLD WITHOUT TAXES!!How does Rand think the world is going to be rebuilt by the SUPER-HEROES when the entire population is left-over looters and non-productive automaton semi-zombies (i.e. non-SUPER-HEROES). Surely, she must be aware of the possibility that some of these people, perhaps the armed ones, would be pissed-off!! Did she not live through the Russian Revolution, the ultimate expression of common people being pissed off by a rapaciously exploitive capitalist elite?The moral is, you may not have to do anything for anyone, but if you're sitting there with all the wealth and the majority of humanity is next to you looking on avariciously, YOU'D BETTER HAVE A PLAN FOR DEALING WITH THEM! Otherwise, you may get to join the Romanovs. What I'm saying is, a little altruism is simply good business, something Rand just never understood.


