1345334400
4.0
review/summary: Great book - not the best swaddling method though!review/text: I read this book while still pregnant and have found it to be very effective. My parents (who raised three babies of their own) were stunned when I showed them how I could "switch off" my son's crying so easily.Although most of the S's are very easy to implement, I almost gave up on the main one, swaddling, because the swaddling technique shown in the book and the DVD is tricky and my son could bust out of it almost from birth - and he was a small baby. Also, he screamed and kicked when he could see that swaddle coming. I thought "ok - so he hates swaddling" and tried to put him down witnout a swaddle but no dice! He HATED just being on his back for even a minute. It was sleep on me or sleep in a swaddle but it took 5-6 tries to get the swaddle on and he'd usually break out of it within an hour or two. I felt like I was caught in a terrible "hates being swaddled but needs to be swaddled" catch-22. I thought about giving up and just letting him sleep on his stomach (like we all did) but knew I'd ever sleep with him on his stomach for fear of SIDS. So, I went through almost all the swaddler products on the market trying to find one I could get him into without a terrible struggle and that he couldn't escape from. I think the one that works best depends on the baby - the Halo was probably the best for us. However, none of the products worked perfectly for our needs (keeping those arms down, blanket away from face, plenty of room to kick the feet without breaking the swaddle).In the end, I watched a bunch of YouTube swaddling instructional videos and developed my own escape proof swaddle wrap using just a blanket again. I recommend trying a "bat wing" configuration to keep those little arms in place. It works really well for us and after getting used to it my baby now lies pretty still and lets me swaddle him! Sometimes he starts to fall asleep as soon as I finish up swaddling him. I never, ever thought that would happen! So, if you can't get the DUDU method in the book to work for you - don't give up. Just keep trying and develop your own swaddle if you have a really little Houdini like I do! It is so worth it.Oh, final tip is that I give the baby his pacifier while swaddling but not until he starts to fuss. That really seems to calm him down and stop him from resisting!


