1355702400
4.0
review/summary: Spinechilling and intensely gripping this is one of those books that will make the hairs on your arms stand up!!review/text: Lee Child is one of the greatest writers of this genre, and who not only so deserves all the great acclaim that he receives but also is an author whose books deserve to be on your bookshelves. Often seen as an American writer, for he includes such idioms of the American thriller, his skill and accomplished ability as a master of his craft is apparent. Jack Reacher is Child's 9th thriller based on this particular character, and similarly to the others within this series it does not disappoint! Full of excitement, drama and electric tension this is a story that you will loose yourself within; although one must be careful so as not to get swept away by the terrifying psychopathic killer...In a heartland city thrown into terror, Jack Reacher is soon at the scene of the crime where an accused gunman waits, asking for HIM. Jack is not always looking for trouble and tries to remain as inconspicuous as possible, however trouble sometimes inevitably seeks him out and in this case he is unable to avoid it. When a psychopathic killer and a ex-military cop are linked together, the cogs within Jack's brain begin to move as he endeavors to work out why.Lee Child's thrillers are inventive, with One Shot being totally original and distinctive in its storyline that similarly to authors such as Dick Francis for example, have a whole list of works that are each individual as the next one. Questions such as why Barr kills five people with six shots to then leave a trail of evidence behind, as well as then asking for Reacher. As you delve back into Jack Reacher's past one then is able to connect the bizarre happenings with other events, which ultimately piece together this puzzle. An example would be such as when Reacher was a military policeman, where politics at the time stopped him from pursuing Barr. Why now has Barr forgotten everything? Lee Child is a master of the perverse solution to the set of questions no-one dared to ever ask in quite that way before, and the macho yet sensitive Jack Reacher is one of the more interesting series characters in thrillers. One Shot is a smart set of puzzles which strings the reader along to false conclusions, and a sense of real danger. It also, like its hero, has a heart and is a book that you will totally love.*There is also a film tie-in edition of this book, for the release of the movie (starring Tom Cruise) that is out on Boxing Day 2012*


