1360540800
5.0
review/summary: God, kings and Idolsreview/text: The king sacrifices his firstborn to the idol Molech in the land of Israel. God had chosen Israel as His nation, but throughout the history Israel did not always choose God. During the reign of king Ahaz, idolatry was rife in Israel.Hezekiah witnesses his brother being sacrificed to Molech. Will he survive or is his father going to sacrifice him too? How many sacrifices will there be? Will Judah repent and listen to the prophets?Are the Levites strong enough to stand for their faith in God? Do they still believe in God? When the high priest is promoted, will he be able to withstand the temptations?"Grandpa?" he asked at last, "couldn't Yahweh kill all our enemies and save us? Then my father wouldn't have to spoilHis Temple. Couldn't Yahweh do that?""Certainly He could! Don't you remember the story I told you about how Yahweh helped David defeat Goliath?"Hezekiah nodded?"And remember Joshua and the battle of Jericho? And how Yahweh caused the sun to stand still so Joshua could defeatthe five Amorite kings? Yes, of course Yahweh could defeat all of Judah's enemies.""Then why didn't He, Grandpa?"Zechariah's face looked sad as he shook his head. "Because our nation no longer believes in Him... and so no onebothered to ask Him to."Lynn Austin thoroughly researched the history of Judah during the reign of king Ahaz. She turned history into a beautiful story allowing the reading to experience different emotions while tension builds with the turning of each page.The story reminds us that God is the only God to serve. When we replace Him with idols, our hearts are hardened and it becomes difficult to hear the voice of Truth."Belief in Yahweh doesn't come with your mind, Hezekiah. It comes with your heart. When you only believe in thingsyou can see with your eyes and touch with your hands, it is idolatry."What I enjoyed the most, is how the characters came alive in the pages, pulling the reader into their emotions, fears, victories and love.I highly recommend Gods and Kings: Chronicles of the Kings.


