1361836800
5.0
review/summary: For people who didn't understand "The Hobbit"review/text: I've read some negative reviews of "The Hobbit," so I thought it might help potential (or confused) readers to explain some things.First, Tolkien's three major works set in Middle Earth are The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Silmarillion. You need to understand that Tolkien pretended, as he was writing them, that they were written by hobbits, and came to Tolkien as the "Red Book of Westmarch." Tolkien then translated the Red Book and wrote up the translations as the three works above. That is the literary conceit, and if you fail to recognize that, then you won't understand how the three works can be so different.The part of the Red Book which Tolkien pretends to have turned into The Hobbit, or There and Back Again, was supposed to have been written by Bilbo himself, for other hobbits, as a tale of his adventure. Thus, descriptions and characterizations of dwarves and elves (and everything else) in The Hobbit are from the viewpoint of a very unsophisticated hobbit who had one (epic) adventure in his entire sedate and settled hobbit life. One of the overarching themes of The Hobbit is that the adventure radically changed Bilbo in some ways while leaving him amazingly unchanged in many other ways. Bilbo remains a hobbit, through and through (albeit a strange and unreliable one, in the opinion of most other hobbits). The description of a typical hobbit in the early pages of chapter 1 is the description of the writer, and the reader must keep that in mind.The LOTR, in contrast, was (supposedly) based on parts of the Red Book written mostly by Frodo, who lived through the events of LOTR and who was very much changed by them. Frodo as a writer was much more sophisticated, more well-traveled, more learned, and more connected to the outside world than Bilbo. Frodo drew on many sources for his story, and was not an eye-witness to much of it. Also, Frodo loses much of his "hobbitness," partly due to the burden of the Ring and partly because of his extensive exposure to the Wide World. LOTR is therefore the most "human" (in the Middle Earth sense) of Tolkien's three works.Lastly, The Silmarillion was (supposedly) based on parts of the Red Book which were translations by Bilbo and Frodo from ancient elvish histories (both oral and written). So again, the character of The Silmarillion is quite different from LOTR or The Hobbit.However, the three works constitute one whole. Reading all three gives the reader much more appreciation of Tolkien's world of Middle Earth. I hope this helps some confused readers.If you want to hear some great lectures on The Hobbit, check out [...](Note that I have no association whatsoever with that web site / professor / school.)


