1360713600
4.0
review/summary: Jack Reacher seriesreview/text: The movie with Tom Cruise deserves discussion--haven't seen it, but just bought a sweet 'smart' TV and signed up for Netflix streaming, so I may watch it eventually. I'll just say here that, regarding the movie, and despite Mr Cruise's pathological delusions about what passes for 'real life'...I confess that I'm a fan. TC's (usually) fun to watch on screen.But casting him as Jake Reacher...what were they thinking?Reacher graduated West Point, served honorably and heroically for 15 years, including 'Nam, as an Army MP. He was awarded a Silver Star for digging out and rescuing Marines from the rubble of the terrorist bombing of their barracks in Lebenon. Everyone who knew him in the Army speaks highly of him, not a few with reverence. He's also, at 6' 5," 220 lbs, a highly-trained killer, and as a civilian, he continues to kill...the very, very bad guys he encounters. Meanwhile, the elfin Mr Cruise, when standing ramrod straight and executing a last-second (surreptitious) tippy-toe move just before the camera clix, is, at best, 5'5"--a foot shorter than Reacher... in a narrative where Reacher's investigative skills AND his physical size and prowess are essential. His appearance alone makes him intimidating, a crucial element in the reader's ability to suspend disbelief.In any case, the series is good, good stuff. Solid writing. (Don't be put off by the Hemingwayesque shite, at the beginning of first Reacher novel. The writing gets better, so good you don't notice it.) I've just ordered #5...gotta be ready to follow Jack Reacher and his exploits when I'm done with #4. Good plots, good stories, great character/hero. Having read the first 3, I can tell you they're the proverbial page-turner. Maybe not quite as good as the wizard himself, Elmore Leonard, but close enough. There's nothing not to like about the character and the writing gets better and better with each book...did I mention that a good series such as this is a godsend, a blessing, frickin' welcome, big time, anytime. Sorry, gotta finish #4.Jack Reacher, for the time being, has officially taken over my brain.


