1353542400
4.0
review/summary: Call me Fishmael.review/text: Call me Fishmael.I gave MOBY DICK four stars because 80% of the novel is a rip-roaring adventure on the high seas, while 20% consists of digressions or sidebars that stop the story in its tracks. Some sample digressions are the classification of whales, whiteness, clam chowder, illustrators of whales, and so on. All of these detours do support the story, some more than others (whiteness), but they still interrupt the narrative flow. If I were teaching this now to gifted high school students, I would propose something heretical. I would mark certain chapters as optional--it's easy to find them given the chapter headings--but I would include them in class discussion by assigning students to individual chapters. Their merits could then be debated. I would suggest to anyone re-reading MOBY DICK or approaching it for the first time to take a similar approach--skip the detours unless you find them interesting.As for the bulk of the novel, it's like a superabundant ocean overflowing with treasures. The passages describing the hunting, killing, and harvesting of whales are incomparable. Adding to this corpus delectable are vigorous characters, Shakespearean language and irony, classical and Biblical allusions, allegory and metaphor, laugh-out-loud humor, and an engaging narrator who disappears seamlessly in the latter sections of the tale.Many of these elements are present in one of my favorite scenes. The Pequod frequently encounters other ships on its journey (these meetings are called "gams"), and Ahab in his haste to board one of these vessels realizes that his artificial leg will not allow him to climb from his dinghy to the other boat's deck. A huge grappling hook is lowered, one that is used to secure the carcasses of whales to the boat, and Ahab sits in the curve of the hook while being raised to the passing ship's deck. All of the gams in MOBY DICK are amusing and enlightening because Ahab's sole concern is to ask the other captains if they've seen the white whale, while their intent lies elsewhere. The conversations are thus at cross purposes, providing humor, and serve to underline Ahab's obsession.Two scenes were remarkably reminiscent of HAMLET. Starbuck, the first mate, is convinced that Ahab is leading the crew to its doom. Late in the story, he eyes a musket outside of Ahab's cabin and considers murdering the sleeping captain. After a long soliloquy, during which Ahab cries out nightmarishly, Starbuck passes up the opportunity, much as Hamlet does when he encounters Claudius alone and praying. Anyone familiar with HAMLET cannot miss the unmistakable foreshadowing. In another scene, Ahab and the ship's carpenter are discussing Queequeg's coffin, which is actually a canoe of sorts. The carpenter has been given the task of converting the coffin into a life buoy, a humorous irony in itself. The ensuing conversation is not unlike Hamlet's hilarious exchange with the gravedigger.Ahab: Art thou the leg-maker? Look, did not this stump come from thy shop?Carpenter: I believe it did, sir; does the ferrule stand, sir?Ahab: Well enough. But art thou not also the undertaker?Carpenter: Aye, sir; I patched up this thing here as a coffin for Queequeg. ; but they've set me now to turning it into something else.Ahab: Then tell me; art thou not an arrant, all-grasping, intermeddling, monopolizing, heathenish old scamp, to be one day making legs, and the next day coffins to clap them in, and yet again life-buoys out of those same coffins? Thou art as unprincipled as the gods, and as much of a jack-of-all-trades.The twists and turns of fate are out of Ahab's control, but Melville's mastery of MOBY DICK is complete.


