1360195200
1.0
review/summary: Worst Reacher so far?review/text: I started reading this series because of the film, planning on continuing up at least through the book that was adapted. The first three in the series were okay, with some creative violence, but nothing really spectacular. Running Blind, however, was really really awful.The book followed Lee Child's Reacher pattern: Inside man, a pointless subplot, and an improbable romance.The biggest flaw of Running Blind is the total lack of continuity between the volumes. In the 2nd book, we had Jack Reacher risking his life to save a cherished FBI agent from a kidnapping, rooting out TWO corrupt FBI agents, fanning the fires of Romance between two FBI agents, and stopping a terrorist bomb. By any measure there should be a number of FBI personnel, including some high ranking ones, who owe Jack Reacher a great deal. But for some reason, the FBI is essentially able to kidnap and blackmail Jack Reacher into doing their work for them. Nobody mentions "That business out in Montana" and his friends/allies in the FBI somehow don't help him with no explanation. The character Deerfield is as corrupt as the agents that Reacher exposed in Die Trying, but somehow he gets away with all of this as well as trying to get a female agent to have sex with Reacher on camera to have more leverage over him. It's truly ridiculous and far fetched.Pushing the envelope further (and this is a spoiler if you haven't read it) is that the killer relies on hypnotism to coerce the victims into killing themselves. Yes, that's right. Mind control. I had to double check to make sure this wasn't a Stephen King novel or something.Finally, there is a ridiculous red herring point of view character who is manipulated to seem like the killer, but when he shows up finally he is there for a page and then never seen/heard from again. It's a POV that has nothing to do with the plot at all and serves only to make the reader think the killer is a male in the army.Other than a handful of scenes with some creative violence, this book is a huge mess.


