1344643200
5.0
review/summary: Negative Title, GREAT book!review/text: Uglies by Scott WesterfeldReview by Kara Grant (refers to the 2005 edition)In a world of extreme beauty, anyone normal is ugly.My ReviewPlease do not be fooled by the title of this book. It is FILLED with adventure, friendship, betrayal, sacrifice, danger, faith, history, humanity, and a procedure that provides equality yet also harms each individual. The truth in this book is powerful enough to change the way you think. The truth in this book is powerful enough to destroy lives. In a government controlled society where everyone thinks the same way, the truth will only cause problems and division. I mentioned faith to describe one of the elements in this story, but it is not a Godly faith. However, it takes faith to bring justice and restoration in a world that is hurting.Tally lives in a world where rooms talk; brushing teeth comes in a pill; communication takes place through pings; one can get in trouble for forgetting the government issued ring, skipping classes, or tricking the house into playing one's music louder than usual. When you turn 16, you get a procedure classified as becoming Pretty. Tally CAN'T WAIT to turn 16. Being pretty means freedom, being pretty means no curfew, being pretty means having fun all the time, being pretty means a new acceptance into society. Being pretty means having an extreme makeover that not only affects your looks, but it also cures bad habits like chewing your nails and repairs any scars you have. And if your friends turn 16 before you do, then you can no longer be around that friend until you also turn 16. Everyone's identity rests in being pretty and life is better for those who get the procedure.Peris is Tally's best friend, but he turns pretty a few months before Tally does and their friendship is put on hold with the expectation that she will soon follow and life will be better for both of them. But then Tally meets Shay one night and their friendship brings changes Tally wasn't expecting. Shay introduces Tally to The Ruins and what entails both terrifies and obligates Tally to change her original plans. The reader will also meet Dr. Cable who is an important character in this story. This book will teach you the difference between Uglies, Pretties, and Specials who work for Special Circumstances.It's all from Tally's perspective and I'm amazed by the perspective she has throughout the story. Her loyalty is unmatched and I believe that Peris doesn't deserve her friendship once he turns Pretty. She's a quick learner and she considers carefully every decision before making a move. Even though sometimes her actions seem reckless and she is constantly taking risks, there is purpose to everything she does. There is violence in the story, but it makes for a page turner. Only one use of the word hell was the only profanity I found. Tally kisses one boy in the story, but it's nothing sexual. The book is divided into 3 parts. I also want to point out that this is the second time I've read this story and I enjoyed just as much as the first time. I loved Tally's heart in this story and how her story gets more and more involved. This is the 2005 version of the book with the original cover art, for ages 12 and up, I got it from the library. Honestly, I DO NOT like the new covers for this book. I believe the original covers captured the story well enough, but I guess someone felt the need to update them.I highly recommend Uglies as a clean YA adventure for teens. It's not only entertaining, but also gives valuable lessons about one's identity, issues such as anorexia and bulimia, celebrities, acceptance and loyalty. Being loyal will cost you everything so be ready to do what's right even if you stand alone while doing it.The last line of this book has the reader intrigued to read the sequel immediately, but this story does well as a stand alone. Some of the questions I have for the next book are:When Tally becomes Pretty, will she be alone?How will she change mentally?Will she remember anything from before?Will she remember her friends?What will happen between her and Shay?


