1351123200
5.0
review/summary: The Hobbit- Book Reviewreview/text: The Hobbit- By J.R.R. TolkienThe Hobbit is a very good and quite easy read. It is not very difficult to read because of the vocabulary that J.R.R. Tolkien uses. Although in some areas it is a little difficult because the names of the dwarfs get confusing. The characters are explained very well and by the end of the book it really seems like you have met the characters. All except for Gandalf. Gandalf is a little less explained than the other characters, all of the other characters have a little backstory on how they came to be in the story. Although the author gives a brief physical description of Gandalf, Gandalf's personality or non-physical characteristics are unknown. I really like J.R.R. Tolkien's writing style because in one paragraph he is telling the story of what is happening and the next paragraph he may be talking directly to the reader which I thought was very interesting. My favorite character has to be Bilbo Baggins. Bilbo is my favorite character because he is the character that the reader gets to know the most. Another reason why Bilbo is my favorite character is because he is an unsuspecting, "normal" hobbit when Gandalf came along and changed his life. I think what the author was trying to say through this book, was that life can change very quickly so enjoy what you have. You never know when the next wizard will come along and tell you that you that you are going on a quest. One of my favorite moments of the book was the Golem chapter, or chapter five. This is one of my favorite moments in the book because it really sets the entire story up and for the Lord of the Rings books. This is the scene when Bilbo picks up the ring that can make him invisible. I also really like the author's word choice and how he forms sentences that flow and transition into one another. I also think that the names of the places and people are very interesting. I thought that it was very inspiring that he made up his own language for the ruins. One thing that I didn't like about this book was that the names got very confusing and I kept having to flip back to figure out who was talking, what race the thing that was talking was, and what the relationship between the speaker and Bilbo. Another thing I didn't like about this book was how some of the characters were not explained as thoroughly as the others. "In a hole in the ground there lived a hobbit. Not a nasty, dirty, wet hole, filled with the ends of worms and an oozy smell, nor yet a dry, bare, sandy hole with nothing in it to sit down on or to eat: it was a hobbit-hole, and that means comfort." This quote sticks out in my mind because it is a key describer, hook, and introducing sentence to the entire story. J.R.R. Tolkien was a English writer, university professor, poet, and philologist. Overall, The Hobbit is a great book and I would recommend it to anyone that has an interest in fantasy.


