1350432000
5.0
review/summary: Best dating book I've read thusfarreview/text: If you are ready for dating and looking for a great book on the topic, then this should be your first stop. I've read 8-10 dating books, and this book has the best format and the best content.However, if you are not sure you are ready for dating, then I think you should take a step back, see what your issues are, and how you can deal with them. Each time I thought I was ready for dating, it turned out I wasn't. I met a great guy a few months ago, and unfortunately because I don't love myself, I couldn't trust that I deserve happiness.If you have healthy self-esteem but need some pointers when it comes to dating, then this book is exactly what you are looking for. Some women (me included) think that bending over backward for a man is the way to his heart. It's not. This book taught me that. Men love mystery. They love the chase. They don't want someone who will sleep with them on the first or second date, reveal their soul after a 4 hour conversation, and jump through hoops for the relationship. Look at nature, look at the shows about animals. The male species is supposed to pursue the female species. If you are pursuing men, then read this book. They like to do nice things for women. They love the thrill of the chase.If you are unsure whether or not you are ready for dating (maybe you've had bad relationships in the past that make you doubt yourself), then work on your self-esteem. Until you learn to love yourself, you won't allow anyone else to love you. I know from personal experience. I couldn't trust that a great guy cared about me. I thought once he saw the true me, he would run away. But he was amazing and I pushed him away because I couldn't trust in it. This book is not what helped me deal with my issues, books about self-esteem, self-love, self-acceptance are what have helped me with that aspect of my life. If you struggle like I do, then read You can Heal Your Life and Love Yourself Like Your Life Depends on it.


