1354579200
3.0
review/summary: Great Concept, No Plotreview/text: Jules Verne is one of, if not the most famous science fiction writer in history with a slew of well known books. I love science fiction and classic novels so Verne should be perfect for me, right? Well... I can't say that Verne wasn't influential and his ideas are spectacular which is why so many movies have been based on his books but I have yet to read a Verne book that exceeded or even met my expectations.First, all his characters, despite different names and motivations, are all the same; perfect English gentlemen. This is not uncommon for writers from this era but when a Canadian harpooner like Ned Land uses phrases like `By Jove' it rings false. Rudyard Kipling wrote Captains Courageous 27 years later and created sailors that felt absolutely authentic. Verne's characters seem to be created for a specific purpose. Captain Nemo is there to explain in detail the working of his Nautilus and other inventions while Professor Aronnax's role is to gush over Nemo's discoveries. I don't believe that any of the other members of Nemo's crew ever say a single word in the book and are simply window dressing.The second big problem is that Verne's science is often dubious. I'm not talking about science that was still questionable in Verne's time but established science and physical facts going way back. Verne seems completely unaware of things like encumbrance or the effects of high elevation. In this book Verne's consistently and often dramatically increases the size of sea life. Also, it can be somewhat dull reading constant facts and figures about the speed, depth, volume of air etc of the Nautilus. The book just goes on and on with Nemo relaying fact after fact while M. Aronnax listens in rapt attention. It also spends a near eternity describing all of the flora and fauna and without an actual plot to pin it to it gets very dull. The layout of the Nautilus is very unrealistic with no apparent attempt to maximize the usage of space. Nemo has a full size organ in his spacious cabin. Actual submarines are very constrained spaces.In order to create a compelling story Disney greatly expanded on Nemo's quest for revenge which is barely mentioned in the book. Disney also greatly expanded Ned Land's role to the improvement of the story and did a very nice bit of casting having him played by Kirk Douglas. The famous scene where the Nautilus is attacked by a giant squid (multiple squids in the book) only occupies a couple of pages. Mostly the book is just the Nautilus cruising all over the world occasionally getting stuck. That's about it. It's as if Verne couldn't come up with a plot to wrap around his idea of a mysterious captain and his incredible machine.I have read quite a few of Verne's novels but this one may have the most anemic plot of them all. 20,000 is leagues is much more serious than "Journey to the Center of the Earth" and `In Search of the Castaways' (which I really didn't enjoy) but it's not particularly compelling. This is a rare occasion where I think the famous movie version was an improvement over the book.


