1346544000
5.0
review/summary: The marriage plot revealedreview/text: Blame Jane - Austen that is - for The Marriage Plot: the idea that a woman's ambition and happiness rests solely upon marriage to a man; and that she is free to use any means to land her man, including to a great degree: gossip, deceit, and deception. In addition, she need not worry that he is not the ideal man, for she can mold him into what it is she wants because he is witless--putty in her hands. Unless he is a scoundrel, who turns the plot upside down on an unsuspecting nubile. Cheers, Mr. Wickham.Nora Roberts owes Austen for her fortune and success. Austen was the pioneer that many other romance writers have followed. Not only writers, but including real girls and women for, apparently, centuries, right on up to today; and is responsible for much of marriage's misery (sometimes for some people.) For some, I know, The Marriage Plot works.Jane Austen was a young, little (Actually, I don't know if she was little or what she looked like - but I do know she had one fine imagination.) twerp--writing wishful fantasies in her attic about things she had little experience with, having never been married, or `properly in love,' or, "`violently in love."' Thank goodness she didn't write sex scenes.Oh Miss Bennet, no not you Jane, or you Mary, or her niece, or the other sister, or her cousin, or his cousin - yes, you Elizabeth, the creature that is Mr. Bennet's daughter, or should I call you Lizzy? Eliza? The writing is often confusing and redundant and nothing happens but gossip and sideways conversations - which is probably accurate for the times. It certainly is today. So there is that. If Austen were alive today she might be a stand-up comic. She's funny, and if you can muddle through the bad writing - amusing and entertaining. I struggled to finish the book, but then I'm not a fan of The Marriage Plot nor bad writing. Nevertheless - five stars because she was way ahead of her time - a true pioneer.


