1360454400
3.0
review/summary: Fall into Mount Doomreview/text: A VERY IMPORTANT NOTE: I have the greatest respect for J R.R. Tolkien. He is a legend to all authors - Adult, YA, Middle Grade or otherwise. He stepped out of the box and filled blank pages with true imagination. The imagination and devoted research, and sheer, obsessive attention to detail put into this book, he has made Middle-Earth a world as complex and enormous as our own.Just saying.So, this might be the toughest review I have written up-to-date. So, I'd better start at the very beginning, when I first read the first part in the Lord of the Rings.I started this series in the hope to be influenced like so many other readers. To be taken away on the fantastical world of Middle-Earth. I honestly wanted to love it. What happened after the first 4 chapters? I fell asleep. Never had I been so board that I've actually fallen asleep. Then I skipped the last 200 or-so pages.THE END.That was my first try at LOTR: The Fellowship of the Ring. I didn't rate it nor review it. I berried it deep from my memory and I never spoke about it ever again. But, later in my life, my life will once again intertwine with LOTR...My sister, for a thoughtful gift, gave me the whole trilogy, thinking that I've never read it and that I'm "missing out."I wasn't going to read it, but some of my friends encouraged me by saying stuff like, "it will be better" or "you might like it this time" or "if you get board; think about Orlando and Viggo." (The last subjection actually helped a lot.)So now, here I am, after reading it once again, trying to say my feelings in the nicest way possible.* First off, I need to get this of my chest. Frodo; fall into Mount Doom you stupid Marie-Sue. There. I said it. And it felt GOOD.* Sam; you still rock.* It was so heavy and slow that it hurt me.* Don't take this the wrong way, I love description. It is a beautiful thing in writing, to see threw the authors eyes and see, smell, hear, touch his/her world. But to go down as to describe every leaf, stick and pebble as to give me headaches?* The characters (except Sam) didn't feel real. They didn't jump off the page. Yes, we learn about their past but none of them have an individual voice. They all sounded like the same person.Despite all these defaults, I loved the world of Middle-Earth. It's colour, it's history, is very entertaining and beautifully crafted.


