1343952000
2.0
review/summary: "This one is a failure..."review/text: "This one is a failure..." Not my words. Vonnegut himself wrote that in the book's into to describe this book. I think Vonnegut was aware of the fact that this book sucked and made no secret of it... the joke is that people persist in praising it in spite of the fact that it sucks.I had this book on my reading list for a long time. However, I always chose something else because the critical acclaim for this novel made me nervous. Do you want a good recipe? Here it goes. Critical acclaim = suck 90% of the time.The more the academics and book snobs love it, the more certain you can be that it sucks.Now... Now... Now... I can see you waiving your pinky in the air and yelling that this is a "deep" book and the message is this or the message is that. This represents that or this thing represents that thing. Yeah, I get all that. But the beauty of it is that I don't care.I don't care.I found the constant use of the phrase "so it goes" to be particularly poor. Yeah... yeah... yeah... Vonnegut uses the phrase very time someone dies or there is some sort of reference to death. Ohhhhhhh... so deep, right? What masterful thinking, right?Sorry. No. It's just dumb. I've got an idea, how about I write a book and use the phrase "so it goes" every time the main character takes a dump. Would that be just as deep and enlightening? Then some fool literary critic years from now will praise my book as a juxtaposition of the meaningless nature of crapping with the meaningless nature of war. Perhaps I will win some awards for my work and for my gritty brilliance.Wait a minute... wait just a minute here.... Hey - there is a part in Slaughterhouse 5 when the main character finds his son sitting on a toilet! Oh my gosh!!! I think I just unlocked the true meaning of this book! War is crap! I'm so smart that I just come up with brilliant analysis at random that takes others a lifetime of study! Oh... and then there is that part about the latrine at the prison camp! Of course... of course... I see it all now!!! And then there is that other part about the excrement being emptied out in buckets from the train... the main character even spends some time with the turd bucket!I figured it out! I've unlocked the secret of Slaughterhouse 5! To commemorate this occasion, I hereby write a masterful poem for posterity. I call it "Ode to the Time I Read Slaughterhouse 5"I read Slaughterhouse 5The Bee Gees sang Stayin' AliveThey made Billy shovel poop out of a trainIn my arm I can see a blue veinBilly went back and forth in timeHey give me my pencil back, it's mineBilly's son plays guitar on the toiletIf my engine gets stuck I oil itYou may print that poem out and share its awesomeness with your friends and family.It is a 1st edition all-time classic. Perhaps even write it on your Christmas cards this year.Still, I give the book 2 stars.


