1347840000
5.0
review/summary: Even better 25 years laterreview/text: My book group selected this as our monthly read many, many years ago when it was newly published. At the time, I was in my twenties and it was impactful enough that I put it back on my bookshelf to re-read at a future date. A few months ago, the Kindle version was on sale at a very attractive price so I purchased that format as well. As the previous reviewer mentioned, Margaret Atwood came to speak at Butler University last week and I decided to re-read it in anticipation of attending that talk. She was a very entertaining speaker as well as coming across as a bit eccentric, but in a good way. Hearing her mastery of the language in her own voice was a treat that I feel honored to have heard.While I remember being impressed as a twenty-something, as a more "mature" reader now the age of fifty, it struck me as even more profound and frightening. I remember thinking it was interesting as a young adult but I largely was of the mindset that it could never happen --- a bit of youthful, rose-colored glasses at that age. Now, with a few more years lived, and technology advances what they have been, and some of the happenings to women in the Islamic-controlled region, it was bone chilling to contemplate. My thought this time was more akin to "it COULD happen here".A tale that kept me mesmerized from beginning to end as well keeping me fairly uneasy, Ms. Atwood has written a book that all lovers of democracy and human rights should read (not just women's rights since theoretically, it could go either way). A master of language and story, this is a novel that is both enjoyable and enlightening.Note: There is some sexual content so I would be hesitant for less mature readers. I would feel comfortable with my 17-year-old daughter reading it but not so when she was 15. Plus, I'm not sure the younger audience would appreciate the story as much as an older teen or adult.Bottom line: Read it twice so far and anticipate reading it again at some point.


