1349654400
5.0
review/summary: Perfectionreview/text: For the original review and more, please visit markedbybooks.blogspot.comWARNING: THIS REVIEW CONTAINS EXTREME SPOILERS!!!!Wands? Wizards and witches? Stone castles with three headed dogs that fall asleep to music? What kind of school is this? The one that the famous Harry Potter and his two fellow musketeers attend and dominate. Well, not dominate. Just go around breaking rules under a cloak of invisiblity, riding a broomstick that costs more than his old house, losing tons of Gryffindor House points. That sorta thing.All this applies to the first Harry Potter book by the famous author, J.K. Rowling. Allow me to re-cap the series for those of you who haven't read the books (Gasp!) or who have forgotten. Harry is a baby that survived the Killing curse, Avada Kedavra, of the world's most infamous wizard: Lord Voldemort. He survived and for his pains, received a scar in the shape of a lightning bolt on his forehead. That scar is what makes everyone recognize him when he goes out in public, among fellow wizards. Muggles (humans with no magical power) have no clue about magic or about Harry.The plot officially starts off with a kick when Hagrid, a keeper of the grounds at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, comes to collect Harry from his cursed Muggle relatives and to take him to buy all his school supplies. He goes to Diagon Alley and begins to explore the world of magic in which he is now part of. No more Muggle contraptions, no sir. He also meets his arch-nemesis (or enemy, nemesis just sounds more dramatic don't you agree?) Draco Malfoy who he does not hit it off with.A month later finds him at Hogwarts School, headmaster and excellent wizard Albus Wulfric Brian Dumbledore. but people just call him Albus. He starts off with a new (and first) best friend in Ronald Weasly, also referred to as Ron. He befriends another wizard, technically a witch, Hermione Granger (Yes, a girl). The trio establish a firm friendship that doesn't waver even despite the adventures that almost get them killed. That involves traversing the third floor, which happens to be forbidden, and coming face-to-face to a three headed dog that goes by the name of Fluffy. Ah, the irony. He was named by Hagrid, just FYI. Throughout the year, they continue to discuss the contents of what Fluffy might be guarding, seeing as how he stands atop a trapdoor. Turns out, Dumbledore was doing a favor for his old (and I mean VERY old) buddy, Nicholas Flamel. Yes, he is still alive, hence my comment about being VERY old. Anyways, turns out that Dumbledore was hiding Flamel's Sorcerer's Stone so that Voldemort wouldn't get his greedy, bony, hands on it.You see, Voldemort was a rogue wizard that wanted to be granted immortality and as we all know, that gift also comes with a consequence. He didn't have a true body. He was more of a form of vapor. A soul without a body, I suppose you could say. So, he wanted the Stone to be able to make his own body. In the meantime, he hides out in his follower's body. That being the Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, Quirinius Quirrel. Hence, the reason that Dumbledore hid the stone at the school: No one would even attempt to steal it with Fluffy there.At the end, Harry, Ron, and Hermione all end up putting Fluffers to sleep and entering the trapdoor. They face plants, keys that fly and other mysteries that they manage to pass. At the end, Harry and Voldemort have showdown that leaves Harry mortally wounded but alive. He recovers, thanks to Dumbledore. Good man, Dumbledore.This is where the adventure begins.....GabbyFor the original review and more, please visit markedbybooks.blogspot.com


