1361404800
5.0
review/summary: World War II and time travel, a great combinationreview/text: This is considered a classic and deservedly so. It is almost equal parts anti-war novel and science fiction, and is thoroughly enjoyable. There's never a dull moment and there are some very interesting ideas to take away. Many of those ideas are conveyed by means of the Tralfamadorians, the aliens who abduct the book's main character.Yes, the book's main character, Billy Pilgrim, gets abducted by aliens and then proceeds to tell others about it. His daughter tries to get him to stop. But at one point in the future, others actually listen to Billy and believe him. Yes, Billy Pilgrim also travels in time. Unlike most sci-fi stories of time travel, in this case Billy has no control over when he time-travels and to what point in time he travels to. As a result, we learn about things which occurred well after World War II before we learn all the details of the war. It's a very interesting way of telling the story.The main focus of the World War II portion is the bombing of Dresden by the Allied forces late in the war. Billy Pilgrim was among prisoners of war who were being kept at Dresden when the bombing happened. The narrator of the story (who is not Billy himself) was also at Dresden. The attack is the centerpiece for illustrating how awful war is - a beautiful city transformed into a barren wasteland reminiscent of the surface of the moon. Much is also made of the condition of the soldiers on both sides, with many soldiers seemingly too young or too old for war and none able to remain healthy.Besides anti-war messages, some of the most interesting ideas are the result of Billy's time travel and abduction by the Tralfamadorians. The Tralfamadorians live in four dimensions and are able to see any moment in time all the time. According to them, you never really die, you just visit different moments of your life constantly (similar to Billy's time travel). As a result they don't believe in free will - whatever happens will happen and nobody can change it. One idea they propose that humans could learn from is that since life is full of good and bad moments, it is often best to focus on the good ones.


