1358726400
4.0
review/summary: Wonderful!review/text: I have to say, at about 60-80 pages in, I was tempted to give up on this monstrous, 1000+ beast of a book, but Ifm glad I didnft. I have this strange compulsion to ALWAYS finish books, despite how bad they are in the beginning, in the hopes they get better. And this one certainly did.I wonft spend much time on plot, because truthfully, the only people that arenft aware of the basic plot of this book are those of you who were like me and obviously living under the largest rock in the world. Ifd like to start, instead, with Scarlett.Scarlett happens to be the most reprehensible, vile, and childish character Ifve ever encountered. And I love her. No matter how foolish I thought she was, I always wanted to read on to see what happened to her. I think this is where Mitchell really did something really wonderful. It is almost impossible to have complete disgust in a character and still want to know what her ending is. This is how I felt about Scarlett. I wanted to shake her until she developed some semblance of sense, but I then realized that this book has a sense of a bildungsroman to it. Yes, it is about life during the Civil War, and about romance, and many other things, but itfs mainly about Scarlett and her journey to womanhood. In my personal opinion, the interesting part is that she never really reaches that womanhood, despite all her hardships.I am not one for historical fiction. I will admit that I like historical war fiction even less. But although the novel is set during the time of the Civil War, and there are excerpts of the battles in it, I wasnft overwhelmed enough by it to dislike it. It was vaguely interesting to me, and didnft take away from the main story.I also wouldnft call this a romance, because, for all intents and purposes, Scarlett is never in love with anyone. She appears to be in love with Ashley throughout the entire book, and despite the many comments I may receive about this, I truthfully donft think she was ever in love with Rhett. I think she was in love with the idea of both of these men. The only person Scarlett is in love with is herself. And the only thing she is in love with is money. Which brings me to my next point: Mitchell took a huge risk making Scarlett the woman she did.Scarlett become a strong, independent, although still childish, woman. Her only gfallh is that she realizes she glovesh Rhett too late in the game, and has to (presumably) spend her life wanting him and never fully having him. Generally, when women of the 1800s are fictionalized as strong and independent, there are seriously negative connotations associated with them. You see this some with Scarlett, but she doesnft let it affect her. She is all in all strong. Silly in many regards, but strong. This is where Mitchell, in my opinion, really broke the mold. She allowed her character to suffer through so much pain and heartache and yet let her continue as an unbroken woman. Scarlett doesnft appear to be marred by anything but her own agenda. And I absolutely respect that, even though I still think she needs a bit more sense.I have to give this one s s s s. I truly loved it, with the exception of the lack of a love story. I guess in my head, I had considered this the greatest romance of all time (and I honestly couldnft tell you where I got this misperception), and I really found that lacking. Other than that, I would recommend this book to anyone who even remotely enjoys reading.If you enjoyed this review, come read others at [...]!


