1354579200
5.0
review/summary: Powerful Tale of Morality & Horrorreview/text: Nearly everyone alive has seen at least one version of a story about Frankenstein. Nearly all of those versions are less than faithful to Mary Shelley's original, and phenomenally creative, version. Frankenstein was the creator of the creature, not the name of the creature itself.Victor Frankenstein studies science, seeking not only to learn, but also to understand the nature of the life. His desire for knowledge leads him to seek out discredited and outdated theories of science, which he seems to couple with modern knowledge. In essence, Frankenstein appears to combine pieces of the old and the new in his quest for deeper knowledge.Using his eclectic knowledge, Frankenstein develops a technique to reanimate dead things, eventually deciding to build a human being. Shelley leaves the details ambiguous, avoiding issues with actual science. The creature that Frankenstein creates verges on hideous, and Frankenstein flees his creation. When Frankenstein returns, the creature is gone.The remainder of the novel is devoted in portions to Victor Frankenstein and his travels, and the creature and its travels. We see events first from Frankenstein's perspective, and then from the creature's perspective. While Frankenstein sees the creature as a monster, the creature at first kills by accident. Later, the creature's rage at being unable to be accepted by humans leads to psychopathic behavior on the part of the creature.The creature gives Frankenstein a chance to stop the killing by creating for the creature a female bride. Initially, Frankenstein agrees. Later, Frankenstein considers the outcome of his original actions and decides that he cannot create a bride for the creature. It is Frankenstein's decision that leads to the final scenes of the story and the poignant, nearly inevitable, ending.This novel is extremely complex in its examination of morals and the role of science. Shelley seems to portray science as a potentially evil or deadly force. Shelley does seem to mute her criticism of science by distinguishing between the outdated theories studied by Frankenstein and the relatively benign modern sciences. Thus, Shelley appears to be saying that some things man was not meant to know or do, which is a very common theme in modern science fiction (e.g., "Jurassic Park"). The result of arrogant hubris on the part of any scientist who fails to consider the morality of his or her actions is death and destruction, often prolonged, and often directed at the people the scientist loves the most."Frankenstein" is considered by some historians, e.g., Brian Aldiss, to be the first science fiction novel. Stories and novels earlier than "Frankenstein" tended to be more fantastic, freely incorporating occult and mythological sources as the basis of events. While Shelley uses outdated or no longer pursued branches or theories of science as a source of some of Frankenstein's knowledge, which might somehow be associated with the occult, or perhaps mythology, she maintains that this knowledge is science rather than mysticism.This story meets the most fundamental tenet of science fiction: make one assumption or hypothesis, a "what if," as it were, and build the story about this assumption or hypothesis. The hypothesis in this novel is that there is a way for flesh to be animated. The creature did seem to have nearly superhuman powers in strength and endurance, but if you can assume the ability to create life, I suppose you can assume the created life contains incredible capabilities. None of the creature's capabilities appeared to be beyond the realm of what might be possible in a human form.Regardless of whether the novel is science fiction, the novel is gothic horror, and, because of certain aspects that I did not discuss, includes elements of gothic romance. Shelley clearly roots the creature's origins in science, but because science imbued the creature with incredible capabilities, including stealth, strength, and intelligence, the creature traverses terrain with ease in weather that would thwart most humans, providing the creature with almost supernatural capabilities, a gothic trait.Shelley also first describes the creature's murders in a way intended to elicit tension and apprehension because the creature appears to be either amoral or immoral, yet another gothic attribute. Only later does Shelley explain the creature's motivations in a logical way that removes some of the horror aspect, though almost bizarrely increasing it because the creature's motivations go from being unknown and apparently random to being defined and specific, giving the creature a psychopathic characteristic.Mary Shelley was quite young when she wrote this novel, and sometimes I got the feeling that the story was on the verge of escaping her artistic control. However, her unfettered creativity provided us with an incredible work of fiction that forms the basis for many of the science fiction and horror figures we know, and love, today. Among these are the mad scientist and the "alien" creature that escapes from the creator's control and either kills indiscriminately, or seeks to kill its creator. In addition to the "mad" scientist," Shelley also created the conflicted scientist who is simultaneously fascinated and repelled by the very science the scientist controls.Fans of science fiction, horror, and gothic novels should take the time to read this book for pleasure. Portions of this book may be difficult to read, but in the end, I thought the story was well worth the effort, especially the poignant end.A word of caution: Amazon has mixed the reviews of multiple versions of this novel together, as Amazon tends to do. Thus, reviews for abridged versions, children's versions, and audio versions appear mixed on the same page, in addition to various editions. I do not know which edition I am reviewing (the information at the beginning is unclear), only that the version is unabridged. If you need a specific edition, I suggest obtaining a print copy with the version specified rather than trusting to an electronic version of dubious edition.Enjoy!


