1354147200
5.0
review/summary: The Giver Gives Adolescent Readers a Thing or Two to Think Aboutreview/text: Louis Lowry's The Giver is an award-winning Young Adult fictional novel found on the shelves of many Language Arts teachers and libraries. Many have summarized it as a coming of age book that is about a 12-year-old boy, Jonas, who lives in a perfect society. Lowry writes on the back cover, "Everything is under control. There is no war or fear or pain. There are no choices. Every person is assigned a role in the Community".When Jonas receives his life assignment to be the Receiver of Memories, he discovers secrets about the past, and the terrible choices that make this world possible. The previous Receiver, now called the Giver, trains him.The author continues, "The Giver alone holds the memories of the true pain and pleasure of life. Now it's time for Jonas to receive the truth." Gradually Jonas comes to understand, and resent, the choices that had to be made to create his world, and the terrible secrets behind its perfection. Together he and the Giver concoct a plan to change the way his world works, but before they can carry it out Jonas is forced to make a decision that may destroy them all.For me as a student teacher and a parent of five adolescents/young adults, I found The Giver:* To be thought- and conversation provoking. I found the best part of reading The Giver is the many conversations it inspires -- from life and death, love and pain, and more.* To be anything but controlling for the reader. For a novel that is about control, I loved how Lowry left Jonas and Gabriel's fate up to the interpretation of the reader. The last moments of the novel were told in such as way that it allowed the reader wonder if Jonas and Gabriel's lives had ended (or released).* To be disturbing at times. I am concerned about age-inappropriate content for middle school students, including occultist themes and violence, sexually explicit material and the ideas of drug use, suicide and euthanasia. I found several passages unsettling:* Jonas' father punctures a newborn in the top of the forehead with a syringe full of lethal fluid. He talks to the crying baby, gently saying he knows it hurts. Then he nonchalantly wraps up the dead child and puts him in a trash bin.* Jonas and other young volunteers bathe the elderly in the House of the Old. People are forbidden to look at others naked, but this rule doesn't apply with infants or the elderly.* When Rosemary, the failed Receiver of Memory before Jonas, seeks release, she asks to inject the needle into herself.While it may be commonplace for images as such to be on television and in the movies, I would want to make sure my students had plenty of opportunities to discuss, write, and or illustrate their thoughts and feelings.For me, the positives far outweigh the negatives of reading The Giver. This classic is a must read for all students who seek to broaden their understanding of life.


