1358812800
2.0
review/summary: Embarrassed that I used to enjoy thisreview/text: Quick summary of Atlas Shrugged (spoiler alert!)A = a. As long as you accept that, you will use reason to find out that taxes are destroying our smartest, richest people. If we keep taking their money, they will build an invisible force field in Colorado and hide behind it in a meritocratic utopia while the rest of the world is destroyed.First, the good:I loved this book when I first read it while on summer break from college. Atlas Shrugged is usually criticized as humorless, but I thought it was brutally sardonic and hilarious. The showdown between "good philosophy" and "bad philosophy" was like watching Mike Tyson beat up Pee Wee Herman. A total strawman, but I was laughing out loud each chapter. Plus it gave me a different perspective than those "liberal" professors and students, and it felt good to be unique. I'm also thankful to this book (as well as a business professor) for giving me confidence to start my own business during my junior year, which has grown into something I love and run to this day.Now, the bad:I recently tried reading it again, but couldn't get past the 3rd chapter. The characters are flat (in the literary sense), her few ideas are repeated ad nauseam, and worst of all, it's no longer funny to me.As for the "philosophy", psychology, ethics, politics, etc. espoused by Rand - I can't pinpoint one thing that made me toss aside most of her ideas (or Nietzsche's ideas), but coming from a family of scientists, I'm unable to ignore data and statistics. Year by year I came across studies and events, none of them supporting my beliefs. For example, social mobility by country, the effects of welfare on poverty, global warming, Greenspan's admission to the house committee, charter school performance, living conditions in FTZ's (free-trade zones), etc.Looking back, and considering some of her plainly outlandish claims like the "objectivity" of art (impressionism is evil!), or the immorality of lesbians (a=a will lead you to this conclusion), I realized that I'd been reading works by someone with a serious disorder.I leave you with a quote from Ayn Rand's diary,"...the amazing picture of a man with no regard whatsoever for all that a society holds sacred, and with a consciousness all his own. A man who really stands alone, in action and in soul... Other people do not exist for him, and he does not see why they should. [He was] a brilliant, unusual, exceptional boy, shimmering with immense, explicit egotism."Who was she writing about, Roark? Galt? Neither, it was her real-life hero: serial killer William Edward Hickman, who had just raped and dismembered a 12 year old girl. He mocked the girl's father by sending the child back home, minus her internal organs and limbs.Rand had one regret about the murderer, "A strong man can eventually trample society under his feet. That boy [Hickman] was not strong enough."Ayn Rand, like the killer she idealized, was mentally ill.


