1349913600
3.0
review/summary: Great for young kids ages 10-13review/text: I borrowed this book from the library as an audiobook, read by Rob Inglis, 10 CD disks. Unabridged by "Recorded Books Presents".I have seen (and liked) the Lord of the Rings Movies, but I have never read any of the books. I heard that the Hobbit movie was coming out soon, so I thought it would be a good idea to read the book now, before the movie comes out. Apart from the movies, I didn't know anything about this story. It was definitely all-new to me.When I first started listening to it I said "Oh GAWD, is he really going to sing and recite poetry for 5 minutes straight"? Really, I wasn't sure why there was this need for singing and poetry, and it was boring, and felt endless, and it didn't really progress the story along. The story itself was a bit slow. The narrator was talking about how EVERY character was feeling and I remember asking myself "is that really necessary?" Why go into so much detail? Really. It started out quite dull.Then as it went along it started getting better. Once I realized that every creature and animal in the story could talk, including spiders and eagles. I also realized that this was a children's story. A really sophisticated, long, serious children's story, but it's definitely easy enough for 10 and 11 year old kids to understand. Plus, there is a certain amount of silliness, and strange word use (I kept asking "is this a REAL word?" even though I never looked them up), so I think kids will like it.There is also a lot of talk about FOOD - whether they are hungry, and want to be home with the hot teapot or a creature is planning to eat them - it seems like any animal can eat you and you can eat it. I thought that was strange, because ,I wouldn't want a spider to eat me, (not that it could, but still). It was strange that anyone could be PREY to anyone else, but oh well, that was part of the imagination of the story.Once their quest really got going, it wasn't so bad. They go through many lands and much turmoil to get to the end of their quest. It seems like they're always ALMOST killed (and/or eaten), but thankfully, luck helps them escape. Plus, it's in this story that Bilbo the hobbit finds the magic ring of invisibility, even though Sauron doesn't come looking for it.I think it helped to have watched the movies first because it really helped me see the characters of the dwarfs, the elves, the men, and of course the hobbits.I do like that the story doesn't end at the mountain (if you read it you'll know what I mean), but that the authors tells you what happens 5 days after, a few weeks after, and almost a year (or many years) after. It's nice to see that after all that hard work and danger and struggle, there is peace after all. It gives a good ending to the story.One of the things Tolkein does that I don't remember seeing in other children's books, is he talks directly to the audience, almost through the voice of the reader. For example, "And then, well, I'll tell you what will happen next, but right now we have to go back to _______ 's story." So if a parent was reading this story to their child, it sounds like the PARENT is saying that they'll have to stop.Inglis did a good job reading the story. He did many of the accents, and they were quite different, and I think he did them well. He also actually SANG all the songs in the story, and for a narrator to do that, I think he should get bonus points!Would I recommend this book? Sure, just to a younger audience, one that has patience to get through it. It's not a short book. It took me a week and a half to listen to it, so I think it will take at least 2 or 3 weeks to read through on your own. But I think they'll like it.For adults, it's okay, not quite there, but not terrible.Am I glad I read this before the movie came out? Sure!


