1360886400
5.0
review/summary: A great read!review/text: The Structure of Gary Paulsen's "Hatchet"The book "Hatchet" written by Gary Paulsen follows a basic structure path of exposition, complication, crisis, climax and resolution. This book reads easy and has a very direct path to the different sections of the reading. There are not too many hidden underlying aspects of the plot; it's more like a non-fiction read that lays out the facts in the order they are occurring. A 13 year old boy name Brian Roberson is the main character and takes up the majority of the book with his crisis and constrains in his new environment. He is very smart for a 13 year and has a self confidence about him. Well groomed and solidly built he transitions from boy-to-man in just 54 days; this being the main idea the author utilizes the tribulations Brian is experiencing with this parents. The story unfolds its structure based on the rugged Canadian Tundra setting and landscape, it is contained to just a small area that Brian hugs to the entire time. Paulsen utilizes this small setting to exaggerate the vast outer land that could be conquered by no man.Brian's mother, worried about him being away from home in Canada for the first time gave him a hatchet that the he uses for nearly everything. This is the relation of Brian with his mother, how she has always taken care of him and kept him safe; now he needs her more than ever and the hatchet which she gave him is representing the mother's presents in the crisis he is in. The complication has exposed itself as the reason Brian is going to his father's new home in Canada is that Brian witnessed his mother having an affair with another man. As mad as Brian is at his mother for her actions he is always reminded of her support by the hatchet in his hands that has saved his life up to this point. The crisis is easily seen by the boy stuck in the wilderness and winter is fast approaching with no real shelter or woodsman knowledge. He struggles through with bears, bugs, wolves, food, fire, shelter, and of course painful memories of home and his mother cheating.There is two climaxes that build from another; Paulsen takes the reader up, down, and then up again but they are two different climaxes with two different missions of delivering feelings. Brian swims to the plane wreckage and hatchets his way into the hull, he drops his hatchets and swims down into the plane to recover it and finds a survival pack, emergency transmitter, food, even a rifle which he had survived without. Now the hatchet given by his mother has delivered the means for escape and rescue. He believes the transmitter is not functioning but a fur-trading plane picks up his signal and brings him home. Other conflicts of the plot come later after the climax; once Brian is being rescued he misses his time in the wilderness alone, away from the drama and conflicts of his parents; this compiled with the transgressions obtained from a 13 year old boy going through his own bodily changes and outlook on life.This novel may seem simply put together and nothing but a story about a boy lost in the wilderness, but it is apparent the author carefully placed the structure of events and narration to deliver more than this. Brian has endured a number of tribulations, he learns and moves on from them being careful to not make the same mistakes again, much like he wishes his mother had never cheated. The boy his mother sent off to visit his father will emerge as a man with a new outlook on life. The resolution sets in as he see's life through new eyes, star struck at site of abundant and verity foods at the grocery store that he always took for granted, and his mother's fail and his coping father never letting go of being stung by the affair. The struggle of survival, and the tragedy of his parents getting a divorced all rolled into a hatchet that saves his life represents the carefully concealed details Paulsen delivered in this captivating story.References:


