1361836800
3.0
review/summary: Worth readingreview/text: This is a difficult book to rate. In some areas it is truly outstanding, while some aspects leave much to room for improvement. Overall, I think 3 stars is fair. Read on for details - no spoilers, you will have to read the book for the ending.ContentThe message in this book is positively frightening. It should be required reading for every member of every state legislature as well as our Congress and House of Representatives. They should all be required to read it once a year. Forget the fact that this book was published in 1956. It talks about the welfare state we have created and a very probable outcome if we continue on our present course. Conditions in the US are very close to the conditions at the start of this book.I know there are those who say that we will never become a socialist welfare state, and there are others who see nothing wrong if we do. Those are precisely the ones who most need to read this book. If they can still support those positions afterwards, we are truly a lost society. The rest of us need to find our own John Galt - if we want to survive, that is.On content, I have to give this book a 5 star rating. Thought provoking, though difficult to wade through, the insights gained are worth the struggle.PresentationI realize that this was written in the mid-50s and that the editing process was far more tedious than it is now, but this book would certainly have benefited from at least one good scrubbing by a hard-nosed editor.The dialog is frequently very stiff and artificial, besides being repetitive. Even in 1956, real people did not talk to each other like that.Repetition does not make the point clearer or make it any more likely that the audience will believe. Especially when the same point is repeated many times throughout the book. To the same people. Summarizing the point of the book in a 60 page - not a typo, the speech is 60 pages in length - serves no constructive purpose. The few believable dialogs are like a breath of fresh air and very welcome.So on presentation, I'll be generous and give it a 3 star rating. Just be prepared to tough it through - the message is worth the pain.ImplementationHere, the best I could do is give this book 2 stars. At least I didn't have to scan the pages and convert it to Kindle format. Typos abound - the most glaring and annoying is the sequence 'Ay.' Anywhere in the book that this letter sequence appears, the A is capitalized. In the middle of a word, at the end, wherever it appears. The least the publisher could do is run a global search and replace. Oh, sorry, that would have required a proofreader.


