1344384000
5.0
review/summary: F.Scott Fitzgerald---The Great!review/text: Mr. F. Scott Fitzgerald is an exceptional writer. Always has been---always will be. There is no other Fitzgerald. In many ways, the same can be said of The Great Gatsby. It is an hauntingly beautiful novel. Yet, it is a very sad novel. For, it reveals the fickle nature---of the human race. In the beginning, Mr. Gatsby is greatly taken with Miss Daisy. Yet,---what he neglects to realize is the fact that the attention that Miss Daisy is projecting towards him---is simply a form of self admiration, whereby---she is the center of attention: Almost as if, she is standing in the midst of a chamber full of mirrors. The surrounding mirrors are the men which are encircling her: Projecting back to her the great and beautiful image of herself. She sees it,---reflected in their eyes. She feels it,---reflected in their mannerism. Mr. Gatsby is but one of the many admirers---just one of the mirrors. Yet, for the moment, that image which he projects back to her is the one which is the most pleasing to her---that is,---for the moment. However, sadly, Mr. Gatsby feels as if he is not worthy of her. He walks away---from her, from all that she represents, and all that which---he madly yearns for. For years, he does---whatever he deems to be necessary---in order to rise up to her level of, what he believes to be, her existence. He arrives at a point where he feels that he is now in a position to consider himself her equal. He is now good enough for her. He strives for wealth and power, because he correlates wealth and power---with Miss Daisy Buchanan. Yet, what he fails to understand is that Miss Daisy Buchanan is not good enough for him. He has been faithful to her, but she has not been faithful to him. What he fails to understand is the fact that she is indeed married to the right person---Mr. Tom Buchanan. For, just the way that he is boorish and unkind on the outside,---so is she---in the inside. He is a reflection of her. But, alas, it is well hidden behind the soft looks and the gentle demeanor. Tom Buchanan portrays the physical aspects of the characteristics which they both share---in one way or another. This is why they came together, and this is why they stay together. She is a fickle woman. Yet, she is not weak. She knows exactly as to what she is doing. The destroyed lives of men have no meaning to her as long as the image in the mirror continues to be. It is the image which must survive. At the end, she is just as much responsible for the tragedy. At one point, Mr. Gatsby states, "Her voice is full of money." It is as if he is saying---she represents all that I have strived to achieve, and have wanted. Again and again, he tries to prove himself to Daisy---that he is indeed good enough for her, but what he fails to understand is the fact that the quest was not worth it,---because she was not worth it. It is indeed a very sad testament to human nature, yet it is so very true. This is why, this book lives on and on. The world has not changed much. There still exists many a Daisy Buchanans and Tom Buchanans. Sadly,---there are also many Mr. Gatsbys---trying desperately to prove themselves to the fickle Daisys of the world. Human nature has not changed since Mr. Fitzgerald penned this great novel. What Mr. Gatsby fails to understand is the following fact---that his tragic end came to be on the very day---in which he met Miss Daisy Buchanan. For she reflected in the mirror,---the very image---of what he wanted to become.


