1357257600
5.0
review/summary: Amazing novel!review/text: Ray Bradbury's novel, Fahrenheit 451, is an eye-opening science fiction novel that is definitely a recommended read for anyone with a passion for reading. Bradbury takes the reader into a dystopian society where many things seem backward. Firemen don't put out fires - they start them. Books are not read, they are burned. The government tells you what to think and what to discuss. Free thinking is discouraged. Maybe the most starling thing about the novel is that free thinking is not craved. A vast majority of the citizens are satisfied with their ignorance. They are comfortable with being nave. This brings the reader to an unsettling but very real conclusion: Are we as a society becoming more and more comfortable with our ignorance?The novel focuses on chronicling the eye-opening experiences of a middle aged firefighter, Guy Montag. Montag appears content with his job, but the reader soon learns that this is not the case. He begins to question everything when he meets a young girl named Clarisse. Clarisse is a very peculiar girl. She tells Montag that she enjoys taking walks and that she rarely watches the Parlor Walls, which would be our equivalent of television. Clarisse asks questions, an uncommon practice in their society. She asks if Montag has ever read a book, and if it's true that firemen used to put out fires (Bradbury 8). Montag is taken aback at the way she freely addresses him. Most surprising all of all, is when Clarisse is about to leave. Before entering her house, she stops and asks, "Are you happy?" (Bradbury 10). Montag scoffs and pays no attention to her seemingly irrelevant question, but later he begins to think more and more. Am I happy with the life I am living? Am I satisfied with burning books, houses, and sometimes even innocent people?Throughout this masterpiece of a novel, Bradbury frequently uses symbolism. Bradbury uses fire to symbolize cleansing. For the firemen, is it the cleansing of knowledge and what they perceive to be dangerous to the minds of the people. The chief fireman even says, "Burn all, burn everything. Fire is bright and fire is clean" (Bradbury 60). For Montag, fire is a cleansing of evil within the society. Montag sets fire to the chief fireman and believes that by doing so he is helping to cleanse the evil that clings to their society. Another example of symbolism in Fahrenheit 451 is a giant mechanical hound the resides at the fire station. The hound "slept but did not sleep, lived but did not live" (Bradbury 24). The firemen played a game with the hound where they would set a few animals lose in its vicinity and place bets on which animal it would kill first. The hound represents the government and fear of the government.Overall, Bradbury's novel is a thought-provoking classic that should not soon be forgotten. This novel will make you question the way you think, the way you interact with technology, and it might even make you want to turn off the computer and pick up a book instead.


