1354060800
4.0
review/summary: Strengths and Weaknessesreview/text: J. R. R. Tolkien's The Hobbit is the epitome of classic tales of adventure. It allows the reader to venture on a journey impossible to take in the real world. Adults are reverted to their childhood ways while reading about the encounters Bilbo, Gandalf, and the dwarves face during their voyage. Tolkien's skill in entertaining was clearly shown in this literary work. Even though The Hobbit is not as well known or recognized like Tolkien's later work, it is still greatly acknowledged as the book that started a great series, and also launched his career as an important figure in entertainment.Tolkien's use of imagery is what helps this book flow so well. Tolkien, by using imagery and literary devices, displays a journey that the readers feel they are a part of. Tolkien's simple syntax gives the story an old-timely effect. This makes the story feel like it is a treasured legend recorded on paper. The simple syntax gives almost a play-by-play account of Bilbo's journey, allowing the reader to closely follow along with Bilbo and the troops' every action. This allusion makes the book more enticing, and engages the reader into the book. The author's expansion of certain made-up words, places, people, etc. keeps the reader informed and saves them from becoming confused and disinterested. These literary strengths make The Hobbit an extraordinary and classic adventure novel.Although The Hobbit is an interesting read, the plot itself has some holes that left the reader questioning what had occurred. These gaps, as minor as they are, still draw attention and create some confusion. The flow of the book is consistent, but it is clear that the middle to the end is more rushed than the beginning. In the beginning, Tolkien used great detail in describing context, characters, and plot that it set the reader on a steady pace. However, towards the end of the book Tolkien greatly quickened the pace of the events, resulting in a rushed feeling. Tolkien's flaws altogether are still minor compared to the literary strengths he displays.This book is a classic adventure novel that is altogether very well written. Tolkien, after gaining a reputation from The Hobbit, later goes on to write his famed trilogy The Lord of the Rings. While The Hobbit may be lesser known than his other works, it is a great read and undeniably entertaining.


