1353456000
5.0
review/summary: One Hundred Starsreview/text: When it comes to a spellbinding story told efficiently with heartfelt love, few titles can compare to Harper Lee's TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD. Heck, none can. Like most people, I was introduced to this classic while in high school; it was one of the few books I was "force fed" that I ended up enjoying immensely. Over the years I've returned to this inspiring tale about growing up in the Depression South--a place that could be downright ugly and archaic, if not for the innocent point of view of 9-year-old Scout Finch. To Scout, life pretty much consists of trailing big brother Jem and Dill Harris--who spends summers in Maycomb with his aunt--in their adventures "outing" the local boogey man, Boo Radley. The harsh realities of intense segregation are lost on Scout; she's just a tomboy living in a small town with Jem and her attorney father, Atticus. It's not until Atticus agrees to defend a young black man accused of raping a white woman that Scout discovers a disquieting truth about her town. . .about the culture of racial prejudice. And Scout and Jem even become victims of this ugliness, until they are saved by a most unlikely hero.My goodness, can Ms. Lee write. Her prose is simple and direct--with this author less is definitely more--but her passages, descriptions, observations, and dialogues are mesmerizing. From a spinster neighbor showing Scout her bridge work, to the courtroom loft of African-Americans rising to their feet in tribute to Atticus, Lee's story brings Maycomb and its people to rich, dynamic life. Atticus Finch is a literary icon, and rightly so; a gentle, patient, and loving father to his motherless children, Atticus never does things because they are expedient, he does things because they are right, and because, as he tells Scout, he could never hold his head high if he didn't do the right thing. This is a character who flows through the narrative leading by example in the eyes of his children--in the eyes of the reader. I always feel it's redundant rhetoric whenever I hear someone lament that Harper Lee only wrote one novel. As flawless and as timeless as TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is, what more would Lee have to show or prove?--D. Mikels, Esq.


