1360454400
5.0
review/summary: Unpredictable Lovereview/text: One can easily be mistaken by pride and prejudice, which can later lead to foolish misunderstanding. Throughout this novel the reader can observe how a marriage can secure social status and economic security. Mrs. Bennet would do anything to guarantee both for her daughters. Pride and Prejudice is a story of love, drama and life at England during the 19-century. The author of this classic of literature is Jane Austen. Jane Austen is the seventh daughter of eight children. Being daughter of Rev. George Austen and Cassandra, Austen was born in December 16th, 1775 at Steventon, Hampshire, England. Austen died on 18 of July 1817 at the age of 41 in Winchester, Hampshire, England. Jane died unmarried as well as her sister Cassandra Elizabeth who was 2 years older than Jane. Jane wrote several books before her death including Pride and Prejudice who's initial title would be First Impressions.The arrival of Mr. Charles Bingley to Nederfield Park, caused quite a scandal. Mr. Bingley was a young single man with a huge fortune, and the perfect candidate for husband for one of Mrs. Bennet's daughters. Mr. Bingley's sister and closest friend, Miss Bingley and Mr. Darcy had arrived with him. Mr. Bennet paid unwillingly a visit to Mr. Bingley under order of her wife with the purpose of causing a good impression. Mr. Bingley encountered the Bennet's at a ball and was allured by the oldest Miss Bennet, Jane. Not only once did Mr. Bingley ask her to a dance with him, but twice. Miss Bingley became an acquaintance of Jane and became very fond of her.Throughout the novel we are able to observe how society was back in the 19th century. A woman's priority was to get a wealthy and high ranking husband who would be able to provide a good social status to her and their children. The fact that Mr. Collins would inherit the Bennet's property after Mr. Bennet passed away allows us to see further into women's rights. Women were not oppressed as they used to be but they still didn't had the same amount of privileges we do in the present. Mr. Bennet could not leave their daughters any inheritance because they were all women and the property was entailed, meaning that only males could inherit it. The book is so well written with so much detail that it turns one from an outsider into an insider.One is able to observe what a typical day would be in the old days, especially for women, how would they travel and how long their visits would last. I found it quite peculiar how in the past people used to be guests for months and in the present it is less likely, one usually is more busy and just stops for a while and moves on. In the novel Elizabeth spends four weeks at Hunsford with Mrs. Collins and she is still begged by Lady Catherine to remain. Jane also spends around three months in London in her aunt's residence. We can see and advance in the way Mr. Darcy thinks. Many would have believed that Elizabeth's imprudence would be considered of bad taste and rude, but Mr. Darcy admired her for all the reasons someone else may dislike her. Elizabeth didn't accepted Mr. Collins proposal and she still declined Mr. Darcy's proposal not afraid of remaining unmarried. In contrast Miss Lydia Bennet was so desperate in getting a husband. On her way home Lidya commented to her sisters the following,"Let us hear what has happened to you all since went away. Have you seen any pleasant men? Have you had any flirting? I was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back. Jane will be quite an old maid soon, I declare. She is almost three-and-twenty! Lord, how ashamed I should of not married before three-and-twenty! My aunt Philips wants you to get husbands, you can't think. She says Lizzy should had better have taken Mr. Collins;but I do not think there would have been any fun in it. Lord! How I should like to be married before any of you! And then I would chaperon you about to all the balls."I found this book intriguing since it shows how us humans may be blinded by prejudices and pride. Sometimes we may judge too fast or too harshly and that no matter how bad something seems it may not be the absolutely true. Elizabeth judged Mr. Darcy too quickly, being blinded by prejudice, she believed completely what Mr. Wickham had said and didn't confirm it with Mr. Darcy. Mr. Darcy was sometimes too proud that he acted foolishly, he didn't show any signs of his feelings towards Elizabeth till the last minute, he didn't tell the absolute truth about Mr. Wickham in order to avoid judging and to conserve his pride. Even though Jane Austen is not here to see the impact her stories has had, this piece of art specifically will always be remembered as one of the classics of literature.


