1353542400
4.0
review/summary: Fahrenheit 451 ahead of its timereview/text: The world of tomorrow, where no one knows what could happen next. Everyone has their opinion, and Fahrenheit 451 by Ray Bradbury is a great example of a realistic future. This book is a cautionary story. The message is that we should consider the dangers of electronics, if we don't, people will start to forget the value of books, reading, and learning. I really enjoyed this book and reading what the author thinks the future holds.Fahrenheit 451 is based in the 24th century where electronics and television are valued more than school, learning, and books. Reading is considered a crime. Firemen are now used to destroy books. Guy Montag is one of those firemen. After meeting a neighbor, Clarisse McClellan, he is left wondering about his world and what it has come to. Upon Clarisse's death, Montag considers books and what is going on. He starts stealing and reading books. Montag says in part 1, "There must be something in books, things we can't imagine, to make a woman stay in a burning house; there must be something there. You don't stay for nothing." Turned in by his wife, Mildred, Montag finds himself having to destroy his house and getting arrested. He manages to escape by murdering his chief. While hiding from the police, Montag meets a group of men hiding for the same reason. In the end, Montag leaves his city as it is being bombed and a war has begun.Fahrenheit 451 teaches us that we need to realize the value of books, reading, and thinking. Also, it's showing us the dangers of electronics. Every day some new technology comes along and people tend to rely on it way too much. This book is trying to tell us that we should realize and understand how addicting electronics can be, and that we need to always value books, reading, and learning.Fahrenheit 451 is very good and I really enjoyed reading it. It was very suspenseful and you always wanted to keep reading to find out what happens next. It isn't a very hard book to read, and it also isn't very long. It only has a couple flaws. It felt very rushed in the beginning, and it didn't give a good description of the characters. However, people should read this book because not only is it a very interesting story, but it also cautions us about the future. I give it 4 stars out of 5. If you enjoy this story, some other books like it are: "1984" by George Orwell, "A Brave New World" by Aldous Huxley, and "The Caves of Steel" by Isaac Asimov.Fahrenheit 451 has great messages about how we should consider the dangers of electronics and TV. Other messages include how valuable books, reading, and thinking really are. I definitely think that others should read it as well. I can't wait to try reading other books that are similar to this one.


