1353369600
1.0
review/summary: Atlas needs to get off his high horse.review/text: Atlas Shrugged is often compared to the Bible in terms of Western significance, and ironically, like the Bible is on the list of "most owned, least read books". You can hardly blame anyone. The book usually runs about 1200 pages and has type similar to what's found in stereo instructions, with about the same level of excitement.This may be due to the fact that the author Rand is not english speaking, but in fact Russian, and likely wrote the book as some knee jerk reaction to Communism. However if you want GOOD knee jerks reactions to Communism, just read Animal Farm. This drivel doesn't have the of satire and realism Animal Farm does, which is strange, because it features talking animals.The book makes a case of Objectivism, however to make this case it needs to use a hypothetical story with humans who's actions lack any apparent emotion or humanity. Good guys are good, and only are good, in every scenario. Bad guys are bad, and are always bad, in every scenario. Whereas even in books like Animal Farm, their most atrocious characters often have redeeming qualities and vice versa. I imagine the reason for this is her "philosophy", much like Marx on the Liberal end of the same spectrum, seems to crumble when real people are used to illustrate it.The whole point of the book is Atlas, in this case a train company with a super metal, "shrugs", deciding to take their technology and form a ConservaUtopia where rugged self determinism reigns, and the world crumbles around them without Atlas to support it.However only sociopaths, which the characters are, believe themselves Atlas. Believe that if they shrug, taking their brilliance away, that no one else will take their place. Yet this happens, all the time. Calculus didn't go to the grave with Newton, nor did the assembly line with Ford, mostly because other people replicated and improved upon their work with their own.This is what essentially makes Atlas Shrugged ego masturbation. Atlas revolves around the belief that no one does good for it's own sake, but rather good is the result of the whims of a few select great and perfect people. If the Government attempts to piss them off with regulations they will leave the poor and unwashed masses to destroy themselves.This would, of course never happen, and the book must take wild leaps in logic to support the basics of the plot. For example, the super metal is created basically by one person, with only a passing mention of scientists (who apparently deserve no credit). No. No metalworkers, no foundry, no testing, no testers, just the will and perfection of one person with "special knowledge" no other man could possibly possess.Yeah. Okay.This is of course the very problem with Atlas Shrugged. Ironically, if she were right in this book, and companies or people "shrugging" really poised a threat to Government, Bill Gates wouldn't be a billionaire today.


