1353196800
2.0
review/summary: I just didn't like it...review/text: Ugh, what to say about this book. I wanted so badly to love it, but I didn't. I didn't even like it a little bit. That's terrible when you don't really enjoy the very first classic you read. This isn't setting a good stage for the future and planning on reading one classic a month. Good thing Alice in Wonderland is next month. That will definitely make up for the suck of this one. Don't you hate it when you hear such good things about a book and you go in expecting to love it only to be completely disappointed? Yeah, that's what happened here.The book follows Dorian Gray (the original Mr. Gray, if you will) who is apparently a very beautiful man who is envied by many only he doesn't quite understand why. I liked Dorian but I didn't feel like his character had much depth. I liked that he wasn't all look how sexy I am you know you want this, but at the same time he was kind of a sissy. He follows this Lord Henry guy around like he's a lost little puppy dog and puts up with him bashing him on numerous occasions. I don't know who this guy thinks he is but I had to force myself not to skip over his parts. The only rational person in this book (minus his psycho obsession over Dorian) is Basil but he isn't in enough of the book to really care too much about.I think I know why I couldn't get into this book as much as the rest of the people who told me about it. Have you seen the movie The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen? Okay, I see Dorian Gray in that movie when I think about him. I see Stuart Townsend in all his "I'm the bomb get over it" glory. I cannot and will not picture him as the pushover that he was in this book. That movie ruined the book for me. I remember watching the actual Dorian Gray movie but it was boring too. I may have to watch it again just to see how terrible it was in comparison to the book, but I vaguely remember falling asleep at some point.The only reason I didn't give it one butterfly is because I was able to finish it. It was hard and it seemed like forever, but I did it. And the only reason I did it was to get to the end. I read on and off for like five days just to read about the scene I could have watched in The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen after only an hour and a half. Stuart Townsend will always be my Dorian Gray. This book just didn't do it for me. However... Dorian is a VERY cool name. Props to Mr. Wilde for that.


