1359849600
5.0
review/summary: Lewis at his logical best, but not without faultsreview/text: C. S. Lewis was perhaps one of the most brilliant logicians of the twentieth century, and this book shows him at his best. Extremely complex questions are dealt with in a language that everyone can understand, and the case he advances for belief in the Christian God is impressive - even, in a way, almost fullproof. That said, however, he is not without his faults, and I'll risk sounding like a hairsplitter by pointing out one or two.First of all, Lewis, like most Christians, is very keen to emphasize the uniqueness of Christianity and to differentiate it from all other faiths. To this end, for example, he classes the Eastern faiths, in particular Hinduism, as a form of Pantheism. His definition of Pantheism is basically this: A Pantheist believes that God and the Universe are one, and that, as he says, "if the universe ceased to exist, so would God." But this is a caricature of Hinduism. It is true that Hindus believe God to be present in the universe, and the universe to be, in some respects, a manifestation of God's consciousness. Yet they do not deny that God exists also outside and apart from the Universe. The Universe, after all, is for them a dream in the mind of Brahma. The world of Spirit - completely outside the material universe - is indeed emphasized by the Hindus even more than by the Christians. And surely Christians too agree that the physical universe - all of it - exists only by the will of God. If He were to withdraw His will, it would immediately cease to exist. What is the difference between that and the Hindu idea? One of semantics, it seems.Again, Lewis claims that the Hindu looks on suffering and evil in the world and says "all this is God;" and Lewis claims that Christians scorn this attitude, which seems to attribute evil to God. But there is a basic illogic in Lewis' attitude here. If the Universe and everything in it it exists only by the will of God, which Christians don't deny, then presumably the suffering and evil in the Universe must, in some way or other, be part of God's pland. Put it another way: Christians admit that God created Satan, or Lucifer. Admittedly, he was not created evil, but chose to go that way himself. However, the Christian God is omniscient, and must surely have been able to foresee that Lucifer would "go wrong" - yet God still created him. This means that evil too, in the Christian sense, is "of God," in that God allows its (and Satan's) existence in order that a greater good may come of it. What then is the difference between this idea and that of the Hindus? Lewis chose to ignore this question, and I'm quite certain he did so because he could not find an answer.In reality, the difference between the teachings of Christ, Krishna and Buddha are scarcely detectable even with a theological microscope, and all apparent differences, when examined closely, turn out to be based on little more than semantics. It's a pity Lewis couldn't see that.


