1359331200
3.0
review/summary: Not the Novel I Thought it Would Be, But I Liked the Jack Reacher Characterreview/text: I haven't read any other Lee Child books, I checked this one out purely because I liked the previews for the movie Jack Reacher and wanted to read the book first. I was surprised to find out this wasn't actually the first book in the series. It is in fact book number 9, (Killing Floor is the first if that's what you were after), this isn't mentioned anywhere on the Tom Cruise face version cover of the book. Saying that I had no problem understanding what was going on or understanding what the character Jack Reacher was supposed to be, this was easily read as a standalone storyline, although I have no idea if major revelations from the plot of previous novels were given away in this one. I didn't find One Shot to be anywhere near the greatest novel ever written, it was enjoyable but I won't be rushing out to read other books in the series based on the plot, although I thought the plot was a bit weak, it was good enough that I will read more by Child if I come across nothing else interesting to read from time to time. Nor will I rush to watch the movie this weekend or anything, in fact I'm quite happy after reading this to wait until it's on TV, and I hope they do a lot better job with the ending than the one in the novel. What I liked most about One Shot was the Jack Reacher character, I didn't find him to be one hundred precent realistic, but I can live with that in a fiction novel. He kind of reminded me of the Parker character from Richard Stark novels, although Parker was obviously a criminal, Reacher seems to be from this novel anyway on the other side. But they both were similar in description, huge men who could physically (and a bit unrealistically) dispatch any opponent one on one, or even one against a couple of men. They are both very street smart and not afraid of anyone and both are extremely confident in their abilities. I also liked how Reacher would add the odd witty line in a confrontation and I would be disappointed if the ones he says in here aren't in the movie, such as he tells a thug who wants to fight him to pay the cheque first as he won't be able to later. "You think" the thug says, and he replies, "That's the difference between us."Be interesting how Tom Cruise plays Reacher since he obviously doesn't fit the guy's description. With Jack Reacher he is not only described as a massive human being, but by Reacher's own admission is not someone women in bars and the like are attracted to and approach, whereas Tom Cruise, well once had just about every woman who saw him in the street throwing themselves at him back in the 80s. Sure he's older now but even those who despise his personal life would have to acknowledge he is still not going to have a problem with the ladies. Aside from attractiveness and physical appearance, Reacher being a massive human being is extremely important for a large percentage of the plot of the novel. If he was Tom Cruise's height, those events wouldn't have happened. I'm not going to spoil it for you what they are, and I haven't seen the movie yet to know if that massive part of the book is even in there, but it seems a pretty big oversight. However Tom Cruise bought the movie rights to the series, so if he didn't do that and cast himself, fans of the books may never have ever seen the books on the big screen at all, since no one else has been interested since the first Reacher book was published in 1997? So the question then is, is a cruise played Reacher movie better than nothing?I found the writing a little bit over descriptive of at times, some parts of the plot a little ridiculous such as one involving a sprinkler. I wondered why no one would have thought of some of the places Reacher went when they were searching for him that should have been really obvious, especially since they were waiting for quite some time for him to turn up to meet someone in the day who he visits that night. Even the start with a traffic cone placed at the end of a parking spot stopping anyone from parking there doesn't happen in real life. People just move those, even when there's a cement pole obviously that could fall on their car at any time they still stupidly do so, and there were no hazards to any vehicle in this one. The ending also, I had been anticipating Reacher coming up with some brilliant plan when it looked like his death was inevitable or some other person to step up in a twist of the plot but none of this happens. The story did have some nice twists, I can see why it was selected to be made into a movie such as why Reacher was there in the first place. It was also more of a mystery than action novel that I thought it would be, but I didn't mind that.


