1346976000
3.0
review/summary: This was tough for me to read...review/text: and lacking in content to be memorable such that I actually read it twice.It doesn't say much about me probably, but this is a book I've been interested in enough that I read it twice, but not on purpose. I read the book on paper once 10 years ago, but apparently found the book lacking enough substance to remember I had read it. The second time through, I read it on Kindle. You'd think in starting a book a second time that something would click, but when you read a book such as this... a book that works as a character study in a setting I've read about multiple times (I find this book similar to The Sun Also Rises), the book starts out a bit typical to the point I passed off the familiarness to the genre rather than to having read the book before. It wasn't until the climactic scenes at the end of the book that I realized I had read this before.Of course, we often read books twice when we like them, and we even occasionally find we like things on a second go around. In this case, I found I didn't like the book on the second go around. The book is a character study on a man named Gatsby whom moves into the "neighborhood" of his former girlfriend in the pursuit of ultimate happiness. In this pursuit is where the character flaw begins. It boils down to the ideal that money can buy happiness. And, of course, we often see that greed is more of an addiction that can rarely be overcome, and Jay Gatsby has that greed.The setting is in the jazz era of the early 20th century, and of course Jay Gatsby isn't the only character stricken with greed. The book is simple as far as plots go, and the plot wouldn't even be all that out of place now nearly 100 years later. The biggest strength of the book is really in the intricate weaving of characters surrounding Daisy Buchanan, the girlfriend Gatsby pursues. While Daisy and Jay are the most important characters in the book, it is what I call the character flaws for all the characters including those two that give any interest to the book. It is unfortunate that as the book progresses it is Jay Gatsby who dominates.I know the book is a classic, and I know many people like it. I am actually surprised I don't; I liked The Sun Also Rises, which seems to be the opposite of many people (many like this book and not that one). I'm not sure what it is. I really seemed to me that liking one should lead to like in the other, and in that regard giving the book a second chance was worth it. My biggest complaint is that the book is in someways too simple.Gatsby is a complicated character, but we are never fully given a view into his complicated mind. I was left at the end of the book wishing I knew more about him especially what happened to him before the novel. Of course there are hints and background, but I felt like I was wanting more. The book almost seemed too simple and in some ways too predictable. Perhaps that is unfair too having read the book twice, but I remembered feeling that way at the end both times I read it. Gatsby and Daisy were relatively likable characters (not lovable for their various flaws), and I felt they deserved a bit better.Of course, it isn't Hollywood, and the ending provided only enhances the novel since as far as plot goes the ending makes the novel. Never-the-less, I felt like there could have been more; more insight into the characters, more to the plot, more resolution, etc.


