1352419200
3.0
review/summary: A Lukewarm Successreview/text: While some of Margaret Atwood's other works have received greater critical praise - her novel The Assassin's Tale won the Booker Prize in 2000, for example - The Handmaid's Tale continues to stand out as her best-known work. Set in a dystopian future in which America has been taken over by a military coup and transformed into the Republic of Gilead, a right-wing theocracy that elevates men, Christianity, and white people at the expense of all others. The story is told from the perspective of Offred (women's names are now formed by a combination of the prefix "of" and the name of the man they serve), a "hand maiden," an Old Testament function revived by the country's plummeting birth rate: basically, these women act as concubines for high-powered men whose wives have proven sterile. The arc of Offred's story follows her new assignment to the Commander and the various glimpses she receives of both the elite world in which he moves and the underground resistance movement that has formed in opposition to the new republic.I have a lot of mixed feelings about this book. On the one hand, I happen to agree with many of Atwood's observations about both American society and the ambiguities of feminism that she underlines here. I was particularly intrigued by the character of Serena Joy, the Commander's wife, a former televangelist who, in the old days, had preached about the pious subordination of women and now, ironically, finds herself the victim of her own success. On the other hand, I found that the way in which Offred's story is presented comes across as too didactic, and I kept wishing that we could hear the intimate thoughts of other characters like Serena Joy instead of observing them purely from the outside. I realize that part of what Atwood was trying to do was create a sense of stifling solitude in her narrator's account, this feeling that she was isolated not only physically but also mentally, but while Offred certainly expresses plenty of doubts and reservations about herself, I certainly didn't get the same feeling overall about Atwood's position.What really dragged for me about this book, however, was the heavy-handed way that Atwood deploys her satire. I realize that totalitarian regimes are clueless when it comes to irony, but doing things like calling the grocery stories Loaves and Fishes, for instance, was a biblical joke that really fell flat. But such tricks pale in comparison to some of the most awful puns I've ever seen in a famous literary work. Take, for instance, this admonition against women learning to write that Atwood, with a straight face, turns into a dreadful Freudian play on words:"Pen Is Envy, Aunt Lydia would say, quoting another Center motto, warning us away from such objects. And they were right, it is envy. Just holding it is envy. I envy the Commander his pen. It's one more thing I would like to steal." (p.186)"Pen Is Envy" = "penis envy": get it? A few pages later, there is another one:"September first will be Labor Day, they still have that. Though it didn't used to have anything to do with mothers." (p.199)The inclusion of terrible puns like these, plus a sense that many of Atwood's fears are an expression of a Cold War, Reagan-era mentality that has not aged particularly well, bring down the tenor of the book. It's a pity, because there are some aspects of the novel that really do work: I especially liked Atwood's revelation about the circumstances surrounding the discovery of Offred's narrative, an instance in which her satire does work, mirroring as it does the history of the Gospels.The Handmaid's Tale is certainly a book worth reading, but its place in the literary imagination will not, I suspect, reflect the original ambitions of its author: namely, to serve as an enduring critique of gender, religion, and politics in contemporary society. Thanks to the self-indulgence of Atwood's style and the historically dated vision of the future it presents, The Handmaid's Tale will instead be remembered as a book that exemplifies the concerns of its time. It is this inability to transcend its own timeliness that makes The Handmaid's Tale a minor classic rather than a text that will resonate for years to come.


