1360281600
5.0
review/summary: Must reads...review/text: Prior to reading Shelley's novel, my acquaintance with the monster created by Victor Frankenstein was limited to old black and white movies such as "Abbot and Costello Meet Frankenstein," the "Bride of Frankenstein." Oh...I should also include Mel Brooks' "Young Frankenstein" in my list of "acquaintances" with tales of the monster.Shelley's novel was written in the 1800&#8242;s when she was only 19 years old and published when she was 21. Mary and her husband, poet Percy Shelley, poet Lord Byron, and The Vampyre writer John William Polidori (oh, to keep such literary company...) challenged each other to write a horror story. The young Mary had travelled extensively in Geneva, Switzerland and that is where much of the story is based.The novel is written in the Gothic and Romantic style of its era, yet it can also lay claim as one of the first truly science fiction novels. In classically written Gothic/Romantic tales, detailed character ponderings combine with vivid landscape descriptions to constitute lengthy sentence structure and a major portion of the story:"I feel exquisite pleasure in dwelling on the recollections of childhood, before misfortune had tainted my mind and changed its bright visions of extensive usefulness into gloomy and narrow reflections upon self. Besides, in drawing the picture of my early days, I also record those events which led, by insensible steps, to my after tale of misery, for when I would account to myself for the birth of that passion which afterwards ruled my destiny I find it arise, like a mountain river, from ignoble and almost forgotten sources; but, swelling as it proceeded, it became the torrent which, in its course, has swept away all my hopes and joys."The main character, Victor Frankenstein is a young man obsessed with knowledge and the determination to create a more perfect human being. After two years of pilfering body parts, he assembles his creature. On a dark rainy night (this is a Gothic tale, after all) his scientific experiment is nearly complete and he uses his instruments (Hollywood utilized lightning bolts) to bring the creature to life.As the creature comes to life, Frankenstein realizes too late what he has done:"How can I describe my emotions at this catastrophe, or how delineate the wretch whom with such infinite pains and care I had endeavoured to form? His limbs were in proportion, and I had selected his features as beautiful. Beautiful! Great God! His yellow skin scarcely covered the work of muscles and arteries beneath; his hair was of a lustrous black, and flowing, his teeth of a pearly whiteness, but these luxuriances only formed a more horrid contrast with his watery eyes, that seemed almost of the same colour as the dun-white sockets in which they were set, his shriveled complexion and straight black lips."Poor Victor is so stricken with horror that he runs out of his laboratory to his bedchamber, leaving the monster to escape and wander the countryside. Meanwhile, the exhausted young scientist descends into a wretched succession of nightmarish dreams while pondering "a thing such as even Dante could not have conceived."Since Hollywood has already spoiled the story by having the name "Frankenstein" come to mean the monster itself, and revealing to the general public that the monster goes on a killing rampage (excepting Abbot and Costello's version), I feel it is safe to tell you that much is true to the original story. However, lest you think that modern science, with eugenics and cloning, can improve on Victor's design, I suggest you read the novel to discover the ramifications of such experiments.A clue to the moral of the tale is that Shelley aptly subtitled her story"Or the Modern Prometheus" after the Greek mythological character who created an alternate man, but was then lashed to a rock to have his liver daily pecked at by an eagle as punishment.


