1354579200
5.0
review/summary: The best edition I have enjoyed...review/text: This is "The Hobbit" in perhaps it's most original, most authentic form. As close as I could imagine Tolkien or Mr. Bilbo would have had it.As for the negative reviews, which almost seem intentionally too long-worded and heavy to want to read, comparing this edition to that edition, blah blah blah.... a review should be just that... otherwise it would be called a comparison, would it not? Sounds like a pissed off writer who never made it, sitting on their chair the wrong way (something up their south-facing orifice)THAT SAID :PI am a book collector. In particular I tend to gravitate towards classics which are bound and covered in such a way as to make them worthy not only of reading, but also for display and even to be handed down within the family. I have inherited and purchased a number of books over the years to this end, and not only is my library becoming and amazing collection to experience through reading, it is becoming a beautiful sight to behold, thanks to books like this particular edition of The Hobbit, which happens to be among my favorites, at the center of my collection.The book is initially pleasing to the eye. The slip-cover is of the same bound heavy card stock as the book cover, with beautiful drawings affixed to either side. The pages are heavy, the page edges have a nice rustic cut (though I wish they were gilded), the print is bold, and the font fitting. It won't be long and you won't be able to find books of this quality anymore.The Hobbit is perhaps my all time favorite story. The first copy I read was a ragged elementary school softcover book, missing pages and covers... I loved the story first long before I became a book collector. Tolkien wrote it primarily from the perspective of the one telling the tale, I.E. "There and Back Again" by Bilbo Baggins, and if old Bilbo were to have had a printing press, and produced his book en-masse, I imagine, of all the editions I have handled, that this particular one has the most authenticity and character, and is the closest to what Bilbo would have produced himself. This is very original. If like me you become absorbed into what you read, then you know how important the 'feel' of a book can be. You just don't get that same feel from a paper back book.For the money, you will not find a more beautiful, more collectable copy of this tale. I also recommend the matching red-"leather" bound LOTR with similar slip-cover. All that is said of The Hobbit in this review could also be said for the similar copy of LOTR.Thanks for reading!!


