1353974400
5.0
review/summary: I Want My Soma!review/text: (Spoilers are labeled; read at your own risk.)"...In the past you could only accomplish these things by making a great effort and after years of hard moral training. Now you swallow two or three half-gramme tablets, and there you are. Anybody can be virtuous now. You can carry at least half your mortality about in a bottle. Christianity without tears--that's what soma is..." "...But I don't want comfort. I want God, I want poetry, I want real danger, I want freedom, I want goodness. I want sin..."This dialogue between the Controller and the Savage sums up "Brave New World." It is a fantastical place where there is complete societal order, where there is no disease, no famine, and no war. But there is also no freedom. This is the third time I've read this book, and, quite honestly, there are still sections where I have no idea what is going on. This is not the kind of book you can read once (ala Hunger Games) and have it all down. It's the kind of book where you need to read it as you progress in your life, because it will have different meanings for you at different moments, and at various times. For instance, I read this at the end of High School and thought it was the worst book ever. I skimmed much of it as it didn't seem to make any sense. At the advice of a friend, I re-read it in College, and low and behold, it started to make some sense. Now this third time, I can say even more of it clicked.There are unforgettable sequences, particularly the opening one (i.e. with the babies), the "orgy," and the shock and awe inspired by a "Savage." (MAJOR SPOILER) The character arc for the main protagonist, Bernard Marx, is most interesting, as he turns into what he hates most, then, for whatever reason, doesn't want to leave the Brave New World he at once hated.I've heard from a lot of people the US is becoming more and more the Brave New World, where we worship consumerism, and are moving away from God.(MINOR SPOILERS) I would say that while we've certainly had our freedom chipped away from within (i.e. the Patriot Act), we remain one of the more free societies on earth. We aren't yet hatched and forced into castes. I hear you protesting: but, Americans do make the sign of the A, while some 50 million (give or take) pop Zoloft daily, and contraception is being thrown at our teenagers. (In BNW the sign of the T, as in Model-T Ford, is placed instead of the sign of the cross, and today's equivalent would undoubtedly be Apple; soma is used to placate the masses and I'm assuming would be equivalent to a Zoloft, though at times, particularly during the orgy or during the "holidays," it sounds more like Ecstacy or Special K.) Alas, this is another reason BNW is a 5-star classic; it has in a lot of ways held true for the structure of our society today. (END SPOILERS)My recommendation is to read this book. There will be sections where you say to yourself, "I have no idea what's happening, or who's talking," but stick with it. It all comes together, and the unforgettable parts make it worth it, particularly the middle and the very end.-Raeden Zen "Literary Rebel"


