1359244800
5.0
review/summary: Brilliant and shocking (perhaps especially to conservatives!)review/text: I read this book when I was young, and I had always considered it a sort of unofficial "conservative manifesto"--promoting individual liberty, free enterprise, and the dangers of socialism---all things I generally agree with. But it's not really that:Rand takes no prisoners in this book. She is consistent in her insistence that anything that cannot be derived from objective reality and reason cannot be invested in---including all forms of organized religion, which she coldly and methodically dismantles as "mysticism".That passage, set up through the whole book (but driven home much later), was where my hair stood up, because most prominent modern-day conservatives love this book---but also consider religion to be the source of morality. Rand insists that morality springs from simple self-interest and reason, and her attacks on religion are every bit as brutal as her attacks on socialism. This made me wonder how many conservatives have actually read the whole thing!The downsides of this book are twofold:First, although an amazing epic, the sex scenes are almost laughably adolescent. Rand likes her men to be men, and to take what they want, roughly. I'd advise you to try to just endure those passages, or find them funny like I did, but just try to remember that you're not really reading the book for the bedroom scenes.Second, the book is quite long, and in several parts, less would have been more. I think this why I missed a lot the first time---I was probably skipping whole sections trying to get to the point--but instead I accidentally skipped OVER the point. You have to read every page.Overall, this is still one of the most amazing books I have ever read. It makes clear that we can either live in a world where we get what we want by voluntarily creating and exchanging value for value, or we can live in a world where we loot a shrinking productive-class and hope to trade the spoils through political pull---until the day the productive-class ("Atlas") shrugs.


