1357516800
2.0
review/summary: Sadly Disappointedreview/text: When I first found this book it excited me. After reading it, I must say that I now despise it. After only a few pages, I began to see darkness under its shallow mask. I can't believe people would buy a book of this caliber. It irritates me to no end. Let me begin my journey.It was a sunny Tuesday if I remember correctly. I was taking my unicycle home and noticed an eight year old kid waiting for the bus. I didn't want this kid to beat me up, so I had to look bigger than him, as I do with most mammals. I approached the kid with an awry grin on my face. The lonely rider stared up at me with terror. My plan was working. To be honest, I was terrified on the inside, but I had to show this animal who's boss. I hovered over him, completely shrouding him in my shadow. I won. The kid broke. He ran screaming. That sure taught him. I grabbed my spoils from his seat. His backpack contained few items. Some of the better ones included some stickers, a ham sandwich, and this book. I beat my chest in victory, then proceeded to skip home.I sat down in my porcelain throne at my house and skimmed through the book. Seemed at the time like just a children's fable. How wrong I was. I flipped back to the first page and began to read it for real. The first thing that struck me was the book trying to explain what a Hobbit was. I swore the book and ripped out this page. I did not dare read that in fear of a satanic summoning ritual. I proceeded with caution.The first chapter starts out fairly simple. An odd rabbit creature (presumably a hobbit, but I was not sure) was living in a hole like the scum he was. Pretty soon, he is visited by an older gentlemen named GrandGolf, or something of the sort. This character is my favorite at the moment. Grandgolf sees the rabbit creature and is immediately disgusted by it, insisting this creature leave his home, or be slain by him there. The rabbit is enlisted into the army and becomes the slave of Grandgolf. He now must travel with Grandgolf's company if he wishes to escape an eternal damnation.The book only goes down from here my friends. The author tries to envelop us in creatures that I think he made up himself. What am I? Eight? How am I to believe these lies without proof? I feel saddened about how lonely this author must have been in order to imagine such divine creatures. Without anything backing it up, none of this book is solid. How am I to believe that things such as trolls, dwarves, and wolves exist? I must confess that many of these ideas made me confused throughout the book. However, I press on hoping it will pick up, only to find myself losing more of my sanity.Sluggishly I continued the fantasy story of Tolkein. It made me queasy to start reading again, but I trudged on with a vengeance now. The rabbit continued reluctantly on his quest, hoping to ultimately escape the powers of Grandgolf the wizard. Until then, he lays awake at night, hoping for someone to save him. Eventually the party must cross a mountain. This is where the rabbit decides to make his grand escape. Without thinking, he kicks one of the dwarves in the crotch and jumps down with reckless abandon. He must have hit his head on a rock or something because he wakes up later.He opens his eyes to probably the most beautiful site in the book. A small creature called a Gollum rests on a rock in the middle of an underwater lake bantering to himself. This character has got to be the most believable in the book so far. Having been driven mad from the illusions that had been fabricated by the heinous author, he now sits quietly and often has discussions with himself. The rabbit, now crazy as well, sees this Gollum as salvation from the overbearing wizard-kind. He approaches it without hesitation and quickly falls in love.The rabbit grasps the hands of the Gollum, and after several sloppy make-out sessions they get married and the Gollum gives the rabbit a ring. With the loot in hand, the rabbit decides he has everything he needs and decides to divorce the Gollum. The Gollum does not like this one bit. It goes into a raging fit and chases after the rabbit with but a broken heart. With his quick thinking, the rabbit puts on the ring, which happens to give it super powers. The rabbit turns invisible, leaving the broken Gollum to wallow in pity and self loathing. The rabbit makes his way out of the mountain, only to fall back into the clutches of the warlord dwarves. Normally, the rabbit would curse himself for being so careless, but now he had the upper hand. With the wedding ring of super powers he can finally take his revenge on those who he had called master.The rest of the book is quite trivial as the rabbit finds ways to kill off his owners one by one, eventually teaming up with a dragon to conquer the world. I didn't feel like reading the rest of it in fear of spontaneous combustion, but I can tell it wasn't going anywhere.From what I have read of this book I can tell that an amateur wrote it. With it's false ideals and creatures there is no possible way that any book in this manner can be taken seriously. It has okay characters overall, and the sex scenes were alright as well. I just wish that the author had highlighted the theme of rebellion in a more positive manner instead of taking the route he did.I believe that this book receives more praise than it should be getting. I can hardly believe that this book was based off the movie. The differences are very uncanny and it's almost impossible to see this book and the movie under the same title as one in the same. Without the movie, I doubt anybody would have heard of this book, and I find it hard to call this a classic in anything but age.


