1357430400
3.0
review/summary: an orphan boy's ordealsreview/text: Dickens makes the assumption that extremes of goodness are inherited and also that general facial features are inherited. So here we have a very good and sweet-looking boy of an unknown father and a mother who dies in childbirth. He becomes a ward of a parish where a certain kind of law-abiding evil prevails. All anyone wants to do is save money and get rid of their responsibilities in any way possible short of actually killing their charges. A key and very famous episode in this stage of Oliver's life has to do with his asking for more gruel: "Please, sir, I want some more." He did this, not on his own initiative, but because the boys organized an informal lottery, the dubious prize being the "privilege" of asking for more gruel. This happens very early in the book (page 12 of this edition) and results in Oliver's being identified as a dangerous troublemaker by the authorities and being shipped out to a funeral home where a new set of evil characters reside. Oliver's essential goodness is recognized and sparks the hostility of this group. He runs away, goes as a homeless boy of perhaps eight or nine to London, sleeping in haylofts and walking for days. He then gets involved (because of the Artful Dodger) in a criminal gang where his air of innocence and sweetness is regarded as a wonderful asset, useful in the commission of certain crimes. He is also, for another reason, desirable to them. They try him out at crime but, on the two occasions that they do, he gets caught and essentially saved and adopted by nice and kind people. The crooks want him back. Thus, for most of the novel, the tension has to do with where Oliver will end up, whether the good guys or the evil guys, will win in the end, and what happens along the way. Along the way you meet the usual fascinating (Dickension) cast of characters: Fagin, Sykes, Nancy, Artful Dodger, Noah Claypoole, Mr. and Mrs. Bumble, Mr. Brownlow, Monk, and so on. An interesting addition to the cast is Syke's dog who is sometimes vicious, sometimes devoted, sometimes dumb, and sometimes shrewd. The dog would make an interesting subject for a novel unto itself.There are problems with the book: outlandish coincidences (read the book to discover what these are) and an unfortunate use of the phrase "the Jew" to identify Fagin who is the sly, cunning, and mischievous archvillain of the book. If only Dickens had not stooped to such a cravin anti-Semitic device, the book would have been much more palatable to me. One wants to say to Dickens from time to time if one had Dickens standing in front of one: "Please, sir, I want less." However, if one can overlook or somehow excuse what seems to be horrible anti-Semitism (treating the phrase as perhaps just a nickname assigned to Fagin by that low-life gang), the book can be seen as an interesting morality tale with Dickens hoping that the good prevails but, being the writer he is, also letting events work themselves out in ways that the subconscious dictates.


