1354492800
5.0
review/summary: The Scarlet Letterreview/text: The Scarlet Letter was effective in achieving its purpose of portraying the downsides of Puritan society and values through keeping readers entertained with a captivating plot. The author wrote about Hester and Pearl in a way that helped them attain emotional sentiment from the readers. Also, Hawthorne showed the physical and psychological effects of having a guilty conscience by writing about what Hester and Dimmesdale had to endure to hide their sin. The author also successfully showed the hypocritical aspects of Puritan society in Boston, Massachusetts during the mid-seventeenth century. For example, Dimmesdale still remained a religious minister and role model for the rest of the townspeople even though he was responsible for a forbidden affair with Hester. A main purpose of The Scarlet Letter was to show that human beings can be misunderstood if they aren't allowed to have personal identities due to strict societal regulations. In this novel, the author, Hawthorne, portrayed the idea that Puritanism often lead to unjustified punishment, sometimes against the wrong person. Throughout the novel, he draws strong criticisms against Puritan values.The Scarlet Letter was ineffective in achieving its purpose of satisfying readers because it did not come to a significant conclusion at the end and some of the main characters didn't receive enough focus. The author could have more effectively showed how Pearl shaped her later adult life by stating more information throughout the novel about her early life experiences. This addition would have significantly improved the novel because Pearl was a significant character that deserved a stronger focus. At the end of the novel, none of the characters surfaced as a winner above the others. The Scarlet Letter would have been significantly better in achieving its purpose if the author had written more about Hester and Dimmesdale at the end of the novel. Hawthorne didn't write in detail about their time together at the end of the novel. Instead, the characters died rather quickly and readers didn't get a chance to delve further into their lives to see if they could live happily after overcoming the ordeal of their sins.The Scarlet Letter is a well-known classic American piece of literature. Hawthorne effectively conveyed to readers the downsides of Puritan society during the mid-seventeenth century and values through expressing the hardships characters such as Hester, Dimmesdale, and Pearl had to endure due to the society and time that they lived in. However, the novel was ineffective because it didn't achieve its purpose of satisfying readers. The ending of the novel seemed rushed and didn't show or symbolize enough. Also, some of the main characters, such as Pearl, Hester, and Dimmesdale, deserved more credit in order to further exemplify their significance and everything that they symbolized throughout the novel.


