1354060800
5.0
review/summary: Absolutely "High" in every Respectreview/text: A great value at $10 for the Kindle Edition of all three books and a great Kindle Edition to boot....The term High Fantasy got it's origin here. The original and "still champeen" of the bunch. And while I love The Wheel of Time and The Dark Tower and many of the others that were sprouted out of this - none of them quite capture the magic and majesty that is The Lord of the Rings. From the Birthday Party - to the flight through the forest from the dark riders and Old Tom Bombadil - Bree and Strider and Weathertop... Rivendale and Moria ...Lothlorien and Minas Tirith - Fangorn and Rohan ... the march of the Ents and the journey through the paths of The Dead ... Gollum and Oliphants and Shelob's Lair ... the battles of Helm's Deep - and Gondor - and the Last Stand at the Black Gate... the journey under the Eye to The Mountain of Doom - - - In a cast of characters that included the strongest and wisest and most prophetically and magically powerful ever written into popular fiction - those who end it most praised by the mighty of Middle Earth are the "little folk". The halflings - The Hobbits - who want nothing more than to be left alone in their idealistic Shire. To live and let live - but who are never-failing in rising to every challenge that comes before them. And that - of course - is why this is the alpha and omega of "high fantasy". It's always fun to read about the wisest and strongest and most powerful triumphing over their evil counterparts... be they dragons or trolls.... or all powerful eyes of fire... but it's even more fun to see the smallest and weakest find the strength and determination to triumph against all odds. That we can relate to - because that we live - daily. Tolkien rightly did not end the books as Jackson ended the movies - things were not immediately set to rights at home when Frodo and company rode back into The Shire - and of all the wondrous scenes and chapters of this tale - the Hobbit's Homecoming is my favorite. We all have our "rules and laws" and "bosses" and "big men" and "Sharkey's" to deal with - every day. Things are never as ideal at home when we get there as we wish for. But even "small" people with experience, courage and a sense of justice can accomplish great things. That is the underlying theme of this Great High Fantasy tale. It's what makes it the best of the best.


