1360022400
5.0
review/summary: Sewing Instructor #1 recommendation!review/text: I am a professional seamstress (running a small clothing and accessories line) and a sewing instructor. I own this machine for my professional use - going on over a year now with absolutely no issues and getting approximately 4 to 5 hours of use per day. My students always want to know which machine they should buy, and this is #1 at the top of my list. The features and ease of use are fantastic. The adjustable speed option is kinda silly since you can technically always control the speed of your machine using your foot control, but for beginners it is like a "comfort setting" which allows them to stay at a pace which they are not as frightened of.Only two complaints which are very picky: my first is with the seam allowance guides on the throat plate. Conventionally, you use the fraction numbers which are in 8ths (2/8th of an inch, 5/8th of an inch, etc.).... these are pictured above the grid and are very difficult to see as the lines which correspond to them are small. The most common seam allowance which is 5/8" is particularly confusing to see as they have placed the engraved "5/8" off to the side of it for some reason. I have discovered that if your needle is in the middle of the presser foot where it should be for a basic straight stitch (using the straight stitch #01 instead of #00 which is left-justified) then the line on the grid which corresponds to the whole number "2" is approximately 5/8" away from the needle. IMO, the grid should be thrown out and the traditional lines by which almost all commercial patterns refer to should be put in it's place and easier to see and understand which number corresponds to which line.Second complaint is that the stitch function #00 (left-justified straight stitch) which is the default for when you turn the power on should be switched with stitch function #01 (centered straight stitch). It's easier to guide your seams if your needle is placed in the center of the foot... most seamstresses only sew left or right justified for special reasons. Centered is the industry default for a basic seam... so I'm not sure why this isn't the basic default for this one as soon as you turn the power on.But, if you are mindful of those two things then this machine is nearly perfect and is a superb buy!


