1346025600
4.0
review/summary: A good first serger once you learn some basics.review/text: OVERALL COMMENTS:1. The machine runs smoothly, without too much noise.2. The guts of the machine all appear sturdy/solid; some of the superficial plastic parts scare me a little because they look like they could break easily. In particular, the extendable thread guide (thread tree) on top of the machine.3. The machine arrived, ready to use. This was a nice benefit because it allows you to try it out instantly. Everything was well packed.4. The fact that it uses regular sewing machine needles and thread is a plus in my mind; save money in not having to stock up on multiple sets of accessories. Note, however, that due to the differences between a serger and a regular sewing machine, there will probably be instances where you want to buy different threads for each machines, depending on the specifics of your project.5. The machine comes with a number of nice accessories, manuals, and instructional videos. I found the manuals and videos are OK, but not great. More about that below. NOTE: The videos DO NOT work on my MacBook Pro, but I was able to view them on someone else's PC.The rest of this review is for those, like me, who have never used a serger before.Like many other reviewers, I've thought about getting one for years, but was intimidated by them (they looked so complicated). Also, they were quite expensive. I would classify my sewing skill level as just beyond beginner. On top of that, I've only recently taken it up again after not doing any sewing in maybe 10 years. The biggest frustrations I've had with my 10-15 year old Singer clunker are a) finishing hems easily and with a professional look b) sewing knits. So, I decided to check out the serger market, and was surprised to find one in this price point, and with encouraging reviews from other novices. So I decided to give it a try. I've had mine for about a month now, and other than experimenting with it, I've completed one garment. I love the ease of use as well as the results. This did not happen without some pain, however. But I believe you learn more from your mistakes than from anything else, so I feel better for having gone through that.The first thing I did when I received the machine was untangle the threads (I left the machine threaded, I just worked the thread from the spool side of things). I looked through the videos and the manuals I did a couple of practice runs (without changing any of the settings) on a piece of basic cotton fabric; everything was great!Then I made what might be considered a mistake to some: I went from there to trying to do a rolled hem on a very thin, gauzy fabric. I created quite a mess, the threads got tangled, the results weren't right, and of course, the thread kept breaking and I had to rethread many many times. I got quite frustrated as I kept referring to the manuals and the videos, but just couldn't figure it out. Then I went to the internet for help. What a life saver! In particular, a video on You Tube called"Threading a Brother 1034D Serger" by "ArtistkaeSewing" who made this video specifically because the Brother instructions were so difficult to follow. This saved my day! I actually had to re-thread many times until I got all the adjustments right for the rolled hem, so while that was frustrating, I am now a pro at threading the machine from all the experience I gained. In hindsight, it was probably not a good idea to work with a fine fabric and a special stitch for my very first project. : )I also recommend a book called "The Complete Serger Handbook" by Chris James. I find it fills in many many gaps in my knowedge (since I am a beginner to serging) and it does so in a very easy to follow format with lots of great illustrations.Here are a couple of other tips from someone who learned the hard way:1. I didn't pick up on any instructions anywhere on where to line up your fabric while sewing. It may be there, but I just never noticed. Unlike my regular sewing machine which has a guide line labeled "5/8" - the serger just has some subtle slightly raised lines in the plastic area in front of the needle ... with one of these lines thicker than the others. That's what you want to use.2. I didn't realize that my thread tree was not fully extended which I unpacked it. For sewing on regular fabric, it didn't seem to make a difference. But when working on the rolled hem on the gauzy material, I believe this was one of the main reasons why my thread kept breaking.Maybe these tips will save someone out there some frustration.Overall, I'm very happy with it. I know enough to use it for basic functionality; I will just have to learn the other features as I go. I'm glad to have one successful project under my belt to boost my confidence. I am glad I bought it! I feel I can now bring my sewing skills (and results) to the next level.


