1349222400
5.0
review/summary: Why did I wait so longreview/text: I was so intimidated but I should not have worried. I love it, it is so neat and compact and in my opion, quiet. I am using it on a card table so the cardboard maybe absorbing any extra noise. I practiced on scraps for a few days then tied on bigger spools to change the thread. That worked well and I had to remember to go slowly to catch the knots before they went through the eye of the needle. I was a little puzzled with threading the lower looper but after watching the video I was able to figure it out.My local fabric store sells sergers and after talking to the salesperson for a while and watching a few demonstrations, I picked up a lot. One thing that the store did, which I have also done, is place little labels with the names of the levers and dials and instructions for tension up/down etc. on them. This saves me a lot of time without having to keep looking through the book. It is good to try it first with the different colored threads, it really helps to see which dial may need tension adjustment.I wish the light was a little brighter and the scrap box was bigger, but I will probably place a lamp nearby and make something bigger to catch the scraps. I am looking forward to making knits this winter. I removed one needle and the stitch finger(very easy) to attempt blind hem sewing. I did not use the blind stitch attachment because when I tried that attachment, the blind stitch was a bit too long for my taste. I think I need to observe someone using this attachment to give me more confidence. I did hem up 4 pants over the weekend, just plain serging and hand hemming, and they look great.I also bought "The Complete Serger Handbook" and "The Ultimate Serger Answer Guide: Troubleshooting for Any Overlock Brand or Model " which are very helpful because they are in color unlike the Brother manual. My Hemline Black Studio Collection Serger Tote Bag is on its way and I hope it fits. I has been 2 weeks and I am happy with this purchase, I hope it lasts for years.


