1347321600
5.0
review/summary: Machines for my sewing clubreview/text: I have been sewing for about 40 years and am just getting started as a volunteer sewing instructor for 4-H. After much research and reading many reviews I purchased three Brother CS6000i machines from Amazon.com for my club.I sew contantly, mostly making dance costumes and clothes. This is not the machine I would select for ME as I need a more "heavy duty" type of machine. I currently own a Brother Innovis 500D and it is satisfactory for my use, but I would like better. However, the price for what you get is what sold it to me. I gew up and learned to sew on an old Singer, owned my own Singer until it broke, then owned a Brother, a Viking, and a Baby Lock. So, I know a bit about sewing machines.The CS6000i seems to be a great machine for beginners or for those who will give it average use. It also has some nice features for quilters. For my club I wanted something that would be easy and quick for my 3rd - 6th grade students to learn and use. I wanted a one step button hole maker, a drop in bobbin, and few decorative stitches. In addition, I really wanted a computerized sewing machine that would tell my students what foot to use with each stitch selection - however, this "wish list" item would be decided by cost. The CS6000i fit the bill and it has the computerization I really wanted for my students. The auto needle threader was a bonus, but is difficult to learn...but works well if one can figure it out. I like it but my 9 year old daughter prefers to thread the needle manually. I have yet to try it with my students - that is for next months classes.One of the machines had tension trouble right away. I rethreaded and changed the bobbin a few times, adjusted the upper tension, with no luck at fixing the problem. Then I remembered reading a review about the thread type. I switched threads and it worked. The funny thing is the other two machines will work with the thread I took out. Oh well, rule of thumb, these machines may not like some types of thread.Bobbin winding. Two of my machines had trouble winding the bobbin evenly. The thread would not go to the top of the bobbin on its own. When I compared the three machines I immediately notice that on two of them the metal Thread Guide (step 1) was bent in toward the machine and one Thread Guide was straight up. It was no surprise that the two machines with the bent Thread Guides were the ones that would not wind the bobbin evenly. My guess is that this piece can bend during shipping or with the cover. This is a really thin peice of metal and it was very easy to move it back into a straight position. Once that was done the bobbins wound evenly. It was a good thing that I had three machines to compare.Inserting the bobbin. Two of my machines insert easily - like it should. With one of my machines I have to make sure the thread catches in the metal part under the first plastic strip (which looks like a long flat toothpick). If the thread does not catch, the bobbin thread will not have any tension and your stitches will never be right. (This is mentioned in the manual with pictures.) I quickly learned how to hold the thread at the right angle to get it to catch. I can also apply a bit a pressure (hold down) to the small plastic piece while inserting the thread and it will catch.The cover. I agree with most reviewers that commented on the cover that it is almost worthless. There is no bottom to it and you can not cover the machine with thread in it. Yet, I have found a way to adapt it to what I need in my class. To save on the cost of thread we use cone thread (more yards for the cost) and I have a cone thread holder for each machine. Since the thread is now on it's own stand and not on the machine I can cover the machine with it threaded (thread and thread stand are on the outside). Obviously, this would not work well if you had to move the machine.This is a light weight machine which means it has a lot of plastic parts. Plastic does not last as long as metal. True, plastic parts do not cost as much as metal to replace, but labor charges are still the same. I don't expect my machines to last more than 5 years - either due to plastic parts, computer wear, or student use. It comes with a 25 year warrenty, but look at what that covers. The real warrenty is 1 year, just like many other machines. When this machine breaks it may be more cost effective to replace than to fix. Remember, just like a car, keep mantainace and cleaning fees in your budget. Your machine should last longer with proper care and mantainace.I gave the CS6000i five stars because I think it is a great machine for the price. When the club can afford it we will purchase a 4th machine. For my sewing club I think the Brother CS6000i is the perfect fit. However, time and use will be the true test. It would be great if everyone could update their reviews a year or two later.


