1355356800
5.0
review/summary: Beginner Sewer and I LOVE this machine!review/text: I just started sewing in September. Since then I've created a hanging pocket organizer for my wall, two decorative throw pillows, place mats and napkins for Thanksgiving, and I'm currently working on pajama shorts. I didn't take any classes nor have I used any patterns yet. Thanks to the simple and intuitive design of this simple, yet versatile machine, I've been able to turn a desire to learn sewing into a new hobby. There are some youtube videos out there that will show you how to set up your machine and use it. I recommend getting some scrap fabric remnants at your local fabric store (where they put fabric when there is less than a yard left on the bolt). With the scraps I was able to practice sewing in a straight line, explore different stitch lengths, and use different presser feet.Speaking of presser feet, this machine comes with a regular, zipper, button hole, narrow hem and blind hem stitch feet. I also purchased a bias tape foot and it attached with no problem. Changing them out is easy and quick.The needle threader is very convenient and after a couple tries has become second nature.The automatic bobbin winder works very well and the drop-in bobbin mechanism is almost flawless in design. Once I knew what the bobbin was supposed to do, I was able to set it up and haven't had a problem changing bobbins since then. It has only tangled one time and that was my error. I like that there are arrows on the machine that show you which way the thread should go to make sure you don't end up with a tangled mess.The machine is heavy duty enough to sew through a variety of fabrics, but also light enough to carry around to different parts of my house as well. I plan to get a carrying case for it so I can take classes at my local fabric store too.For any beginning sewer, this is a great machine. I am learning so much and I can't wait to learn more. There are more than enough projects and stitches to keep me busy for a long time. Someday I plan to upgrade to a computerized machine since I'm very computer savvy and am a graphic designer. I hope to learn embroidery too since I think that would make for some very fun and great gifts for my children (someday in the future!). Enjoy learning to sew, or returning to sewing as well.


