1358121600
4.0
review/summary: A great little machine so far.review/text: I have made one and a half heavy rag quilts with this machine since I received it. I have not had a single problem with it. I love the needle raise and lower button!! The automatic threader does not work at all. I have tried and tried but can't get it to even pretend to try to thread the needle. This has been my only disapointment as I am getting older and my eyes aren't what they used to be. I don't actually want to be without it long enough to trade it for one that might possibly thread the needle. I read on review that stated that the hard plastic cover wasn't a carrying case that this is not completely true. There is no bottom to give added protection but if you remove the table and drop the spool holder AND put it on right you reach in and carry the machine buy the handle on the machine and it is covered when transporting.So for the price and I got it on sale for $144.00, with the wide table attatchment, the bonus items like feet ETC AND a hard plastic cover that does give some protection while transporting, it is a very good deal. I have sewn for years and always had more expensive machines. I chose this one primarily on price and read reviews. I crossed my fingers and hoped it would be ebough to get me to a point I could replace it. I was also buying an embroider only machine so price was a big factor. I am not really in a hurry now to replace this little machine with a more expensive machine because it is doing everything I ask of it.Well, except thread the needle.Update: Still pleased with this machine. It has done all I have asked. I had one issue and called Brother and though not super friendly or enthusiastic, the tech was helpful and the issue was caused by a bent needle or a faulty bobbin as changing out both cured the problem. I had been anxious to upgrade as I realized I would actually enjoy sewing again but I am actually pretty content at this point and am going to budget for a serger instead of another machine! I have made quilts, window treatments and a intricate formal dress for my daughter so far.


