1354752000
5.0
review/summary: Fantastic!!!review/text: I just got this machine earlier in the day and I've already patched some clothes, made buttonholes, and began sewing a blouse. The instructions were extremely clear and it included diagrams to make it even easier. I love the variety of stitches (including a half dozen different types of buttonholes) and by varying the length and width of all the assortment of stitches it makes them even more diversified.I was surprised it's not as heavy as my older machine and it has rubberized knobs on the bottom to keep from sliding or marking my table. I expect that over time, the rubber knobs will begin to slide on my table which is why I'm going to my local dollar store to buy a piece of rubberized shelf liner to place underneath it. In fact, as I think about it, I'm going to put a piece under the foot pedal in case it begins to slide on my wooden floor, too. I've used that stuff for loads of other things and it works every time.As a few others have mentioned, I'm not fond of the cover since it's not a case for carrying, nor do I like the compartment to hold bobbins, needles and other sewing supplies since they easily fall out, but to me they're non-issues since they have nothing to do with the performance of the machine. Threading the needle and the bobbin is a breeze since it almost does the whole thing by itself, which is especially nice since I wear trifocal glasses that make looking up to see underneath things difficult at times. I also like the halogen-type lamp which gives plenty of sewing light but in a softer blue instead of the glaring white light.I also tried sewing without the foot pedal. It works great simply by pushing a handy button to start sewing. It will continue to sew until you push the button again to stop it. Consequently, I can see how it would be a great value to those who are handicapped and can't use the pedal, but I personally prefer the pedal.What I love the most is the touch button sewing. I can put the fabric under the presser foot, push two buttons, and sew. Then, without even lifting the presser foot, I can press the buttons twice more and continue sewing with an entirely different stitch. There's no confusion either as to which presser foot to use because each one is clearly marked and the LED tells you which one you need anytime you change to a new stitch. Sewing is fantastically easy and the result is like it was bought in the store. This was a terrific choice and I'd do it again in a heartbeat. I can't wait to wake up in the morning and start sewing all over again.


