1355270400
5.0
review/summary: I am in love!!!review/text: I am not a very experienced sewer, but after seeing all the nifty/amazing things a serger could do I caved... I first bought a singer which I had some trouble with (the cord didn't want to stay in well). That might have been a fluke, but after seeing the Brother had better reviews and was a bit more versatile I bought it instead of exchanging for another Singer. I am absolutely in love! Also, I've been using this at least several times a week for a few months now, so this isn't a review done based on one or two uses. (I really REALLY love it!)It isn't difficult at all to learn to thread the serger... sure it's more complicated than a sewing machine, but not much, just remember the proper order and take it slow and you'll be fine. I highly recommend watching the video that comes with it, (though it could really stand to be updated) or search the net for another video to help you get comfortable threading it.I am really enjoying the variety of feet, especially the gathering foot! This is such a fun foot!! You can really create some tight gathers by tightening your needle thread tensions as well as using the differential feed.Some comparison to the Singer for those considering both:The easy way you can set the knife on or off is a VERY nice feature. No need to remove what you're working on and interrupt the line of stitching if you come to a spot where you no longer want the knife to cut. Just turn the wheel till it's down and flip the switch!The ability to remove one of the &#34;fingers&#34; to create the very narrow rolled hem is also nice, and very easy to do! I didn't realize this difference till I got the Brother, but I don't think either finger could come off with Singer which would lead to a wider stitch even with only 1 needle thread and the narrowest width. (Though to be fair, I could be wrong about the Singer. If there was a way to do it, it wasn't obvious to me after watching all of it's videos.)It's great to be able to use regular sewing machine needles in the serger!The ONLY thing I preferred on the Singer was the separate screws for each needle. On this machine there is one hex screw that loosens both and despite what the video says, it isn't easy for me to hold one in place while taking the other out (or putting it back in). While this is annoying, it's not a big deal, just takes a little more time and fiddling and seems an odd oversight on a machine that's so full of other nice and easy to use features.My only other complaint so far is that for some reason sometimes when I close the front door/cover it wants to stick out just a tiny bit. This doesn't affect anything, but it annoys me not to be able to figure out why it won't sit flush sometimes and will snap down perfectly other times. Ah well... if it becomes problematic for some reason I'll update the review.


