1346630400
4.0
review/summary: Good little machine!review/text: I bought this machine after a 30 year hiatus from sewing.I decided I wanted to learn to make quilts, and my old Singer's issues were beyond my level of technical savvy. So a new machine was in order.After pouring over Amazon reviews, I chose this as it seemed least problematic and most user friendly.So far, I'm not disappointed.The Owners Manual assumes everyone's an idiot, which I for one appreciate. Spells everything out to me as if I were a 5 year old, in pictures and simple language. I know these basics, like bobbin winding, machine threading, stitch selection, tension, and basic operation of the machine will become second nature as I perform the tasks more frequently, but to start after all these years, such a primer is a blessing.I also love that there's an wide extension arm piece to make quilting easier, as well as a little vinyl (or some other kind of plastic,) pouch filled with notions like empty bobbins, seam ripper and assorted other goodies. Also comes with a "case" which is a plastic cover that slips over the top of the machine... seemed a little cheesy at first, but is really sufficient.Things sort of weird to me, a person who hasn't used a sewing machine in over 30 years? It's very lightweight, electronic/computerized, and a lot of plastic. Not the hefty metal Singer of my youth....but if that Singer was so great, I wouldn't have needed a new machine. Possibly noteworthy is that I looked first to buy a Singer, but found there is so much disappointment in that brand lately, that I opened my search to all brands. So many were happy with this model Brother that I took the leap. No regrets.Because it was Amazon Prime, it came in no time at all, with no shipping charge to me. Survived the trip just fine, packaging sufficient.Why not five stars?Because it's still so new to me.If I were to rate today, without wondering what deficiencies I might note as my skill level and sophistication increases, I would give it FIVE STARS. No complaints whatsoever.But stay tuned, and happy sewing :)


