1356912000
2.0
review/summary: Disappointed in the machinereview/text: Well, I had the machine for quite a while before I had a chance to set it up and sew.If that had not been the case, this machine would have been returned, but I missed the window.First off, there were cosmetic blemishes on the machine, even though it looked like it waspackaged from the factory still - glitches and tears in the side decals (what you see in the photoas teal green are just stick-on decals).That aside, I was ready to take a hammer to it!!The manual is a little hard to follow, because they have the same manual for two different models,with no break between English and Spanish. Why this was organized this way, I do not know. It only madeit harder to find what you needed.I'm no expert seamstress, but managed to sew a ton of craft projects on my old Dressmaker my mother-in-lawhad given me many years ago without a problem. The machine was lost in a move to another city, and I foundmyself looking for a new one. I'd already tried Singer, and was sick to death of them. That was all my motherused, but the quality has really gone downhill - everything was plastic parts. I have one sitting here nowthat came back from the repair shop for putting in a new metal gear (to replace the plastic one that snappedon the third sewing project), and they didn't bother to TIME it! It's a long drive, so it just wasn't worth it.So, I decided to check into Brother machines. It had a lot of good reviews at the time I purchased it.I wanted to get into quilting, and honestly didn't know what I should have been looking for. As I havestarted to use this machine, I've learned! This is NOT the one you want to free motion quilt!First off, I don't have large hands, but the throat area is very small. Very. I hit my knuckles on it so manytimes, I was wondering if I could use it at all! It is hard to get your hand in there to lift the feet if you havea quilt sandwich in there too.A pro for it - threading it was very easy, probably the easiest of any machine I've ever used.I also like the needle threader, once I got used to it. Note that it WILL shred some of the rayon threads, but youneed to just pull extra out and cut away the fray.I was disappointed to see how much plastic is in this machine too! Wow. I had just ordered a 100-packof metal bobbins in the Class 15 size this machine takes. I then found out that you need to use PLASTIC bobbinswith this machine, because the bobbin case is all plastic. If you use metal, it could wear the bobbin part out quicker.*sigh* Who would think that it wouldn't be better to use the metal bobbins?! Winding bobbins - not great.I have to wind them very slowly, and watch for it skipping a section. In other words, it might do 20 passes fine, thenskip going to the bottom, making the bobbin uneven! I've tried everything from different threads to various pedal speeds,and it does the same thing all the time. You just have to eagle-eye it. Bleah.You CANNOT lower the feed dogs on this machine. I don't think it says that in the description (it didn't at the time of mypurchase, but maybe it was added later). That's a real pain. It uses the little plastic cover. When I quilt, the feed dogs beatagainst the plastic plate, making a thumping sound that gets annoying really fast. Metal feed dogs hitting the little plastic plate.thumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpthumpAAUGH!!The manual also is not super clear about how to get the other stitches. You need tohave the larger wheel set on certain things to get to the other decorative stitches. Maybe others are used to that, but I wasn'tand had to pick through the Spanish and two-model instructions to find what I needed. The manual is not very helpful, really.What had me ready to toss it out the window was the bobbin nests on the bottom of my fabrics!I had very large "birds nests", and no matter what I did, what type or weight of thread I used, I had them.You can't adjust the bobbin tension, only the top. The manual tells you to loosen or tighten the top tension wheel if youhave bobbin problems. That doesn't work!If it wasn't for the WONDERFUL hint on the bobbin threading from SBP here on Amazon, I would have given uptrying to use it entirely. THANK YOU SBP! You saved my sanity! The manual is again not clear about that little spring.You can't see it (well, I can't anyway), and I had to go by faith. I took a thread and pulled it back and forth under thetongue until it caught. Think flossing a popcorn kernel out of your molar - fishing around until you feel somethingcatch - that would be it. When threaded right, the bobbin thread will look like it is laying across the top of the bobbinafter you have pulled it up with the top thread. I'll post photos later of what it should look like when you areready to sew. This saved the machine from being tossed into the trash! (Yes, it was that annoying - nothing was working!)I bought this machine because of my currently-limited budget.However, if there is any way you can afford more, do yourself a favor and get a better model!!This would be good for a first-timer. It does the basics well (as long as you can get the bobbin threaded perfectly!)and offers a large variety of stitches for the price.Since I wanted it for quilting, this was my mistake for not having a better understanding of what features to look for.If I had more experience, perhaps I would not have had so many problems. Yet some of the issues are strictlyrelated to this model of machine. I don't even think it is Brother - I think it is just this model.And if I had not passed the return window before I opened it, it would have indeed been returned.


