1355616000
5.0
review/summary: Mechanical Sewing machine that does it's job!review/text: Great machine. A little loud is the only negative I can come up with. It's perfect for what I wanted it for, which was using when my sewing machine/embroidery machine is embroidering.I've had absolutely no thread nesting problems. The bobbin is like any bobbin (It's actually the same as my baby lock embroidery machine that was over $1000) Just make sure you actually thread the bobbin right. You drop the bobbin in facing the right way (the thread comes from under the bobbin) and then you follow the little arrow and put the thread through. Your thread end should end up by the little hole to the left of the bobbin holder. The bobbin on this machine should be a lot EASIER to use than some other machines because this machine has what is called a drop-in bobbin. You drop it in (faced the correct way) pull thread through the little path and you are done. It's awesome.TIP: After threading correctly always turn your hand wheel (that wheel on the side that moves the needle) to go into the bobbin case and back up and it pulls the bobbin thread up. Then grab the bobbin thread (I use a pin or pencil) and jiggle the hand wheel while pulling the bobbin thread up. After doing this two pieces of thread should be on top of your machine going under the presser foot and going toward the back of the machine. It should cure most of the thread nesting people are having.Here are two more expensive machines with the same bobbin type: $250 machine has the same bobbin case http://www.amazon.com/Brother-XR9000-Sewing-Machine/dp/B002ROVEY8 as does this $580 embroidery machine. http://www.amazon.com/Brother-PE770-Embroidery-Memory-Stick-Compatibility/dp/B002MQI2NM/Threading the machine is exactly like my embroidery machine too so it was easy to figure out. The needle threader is a little light but works fine once you figure it out. TIP: Make sure that the little tab goes through the needle, it can move to the right side instead and then it won't thread the needle. I almost didn't buy the machine because of the pressure foot not having different settings but then I thought in my 25 years sewing I rarely use the presser foot pressure change. Since this machine is mechanical you can actually just pick up the presser foot a little if you need it a little lighter. (most electronic machines will turn off if you pick up the presser foot)I would suggest this machine for someone learning to sew or for someone looking for another machine to supplement their more expensive machines. It's a great price and works great.


