1346889600
5.0
review/summary: The Best Machine Everreview/text: I had tried 4 other new machines before this to replace an older Singer I have. This Brother is way beyond superior to all of the others and has more features, yet is easier to thread, wind bobbin, load bobbin, and sew with. It also comes with more accessories, including a quilting table, and it runs with a nice, smooth action with easy controls. The foot pedal is wider/bigger, so easier to locate and press on.I tried two Janome models (not high end) that cost as much or more than this. After them a Toyota that does have nice stitches but is not easy to control! It sews really fast no matter how softly you press on the pedal and kind of clunks as it goes--strong, yes, but over the top for "normal" mending or sewing of fabrics. The Janomes didn't hold up well and had trouble passing across fabrics, and one of them (similar models) seemed it stalled or held up before moving along. One Janome had trouble with jeans, and neither had features anywhere near like this machine.I had tried another manual one in between that was supposed to be marvelous and sew leather and upholstery, but those things just don't run smoothly and are hard to control. They also have the metal front load bobbins, which I hate.On the Brother CS6000i, the machine has extras like instead of just holding the bobbin thread in place by hand, there is a channel you feed it through below where the bobbin sits, with a cutter on it, so it starts the bobbin for you. This concept holds true for installing the bobbin in the machine. You drop it in and pull it through a channel like other bobbins, BUT you go a step further and pull it through an extra channel with a cutter on the end. At this point you do NOT have to pull the bobbin thread up with the needle (in most sewing situations): it begins sewing and pulls it up by itself.There is a quilting table included in this model, plus a quilting foot, and many other feet, a tool kit, oil, and a screwdriver that is far better than usually come with this price machine. The screws on this machine have a much wider slot than any machine I've owned and the driver is wider--point being it seems to go the extra mile with everything on it. It comes with a solid plastic cover that fits down over with a hole in the side where you reach into a groove in the machine to lift it. The machine's groove (hand grip) takes the place of a floppy top handle. Those always irritated me because they get in the way of the thread when you go to move the machine. This grip does not.This has a manual tension adjustment--on top only, as far as I can tell. (On manual machines you can also adjust tension in the metal bobbin holder). Perhaps you can this, but I think it's "just" a top dial, and mine came set maybe at 3.5, so I had to move it up to 4.5 or so to get both top and bottom threads to look smooth. It worked great, though, and the stitches are uniform and consistent.I hemmed some jeans for my husband with one of the heavy duty machines I tried (Toyota) and had a heck of a time getting past side seams. I now have hemmed my own jeans with this and the side seems aren't as big, but it breezed right past. What a relief!!So, hey, I actually hated sewing until I decided I need to make a few quilts, but this machine is probably 300% better than any of the others I tried and has surprisingly better features than I ever imagined it would. I can't find a thing about it I don't like and will keep it forever. I even ENJOYED hemming jeans today! (That's nuts, for me!)


