1359072000
1.0
review/summary: Frustrating machine for this beginnerreview/text: The price is nice, but, unfortunately, I am learning that you get what you pay for when it comes to sewing machines.I had heard that Brother machines are decent quality, and as a beginner, I didn't want to spend multiple hundreds of dollars. However, this machine was frustrating right off the bat. There are quite a few good reviews (which is why I gave it a shot), so perhaps I just got a lemon. However, I found that the bobbin mechanism kept jamming up, and the machine continually lost tension. After reading the reviews on some of the other Brother machines, it does seem like a wonky bobbin mechanism may be a common issue for the brand.Also, something to note - I've learned that it is generally a bad sign if the reviews of a product include pointers on how to get around the thing's quirks. Ahem.I ended up having to call the Brother service center on the very first day I used it. I feel the need to note that I spent about 17 minutes on hold, give or take, before I reached a live person in the sewing machine department - something potential buyers may want to be aware of when purchasing a Brother machine. (Customer service and a quick response time are a big deal when you are smack in the middle of a halted project.) The service guy was very nice, however, and advised me to clean out the bobbin area and see if that helped. If not, then I would need to have it serviced. It was better after a dusting, but I found that the problem recurred the next time I tried to use the machine. Given that potential service or repairs on it are likely to cost as much (or more) as the machine itself, I chose to return it and purchase a different machine.If cost is an issue, you could give it a try and hope you get a good one. Otherwise, it may be worth it in the long run to go with a higher-priced machine. I ended up with a Janome 7318 - definitely a higher price tag, but also a higher quality product. Several weeks later, I have yet to encounter a problem with the Janome.


