1357084800
5.0
review/summary: Love it!review/text: I'm a beginner at sewing. Last month I started sewing a dress, when i showed it to my friend she said, "You really need to invest in a serger, so your seams wont fray." So I began looking around and everything was way expensive! I could not find anything under $400.00, until I found this serger on Amazon. I read lot of the reviews and also e-mailed it over to my Mom (who has sewed and serged for 30 years and to a good friend who is a professional seamstress). Both agreed that it was a great deal and would do everything I would want it to do for a beginner and more.I got it in and I was in love. The serger came already threaded in red, blue, yellow and green thread which matches the color coded machine for the left and right needle and upper and lowerlooper (I bought mine new from amazon so it came threaded). This way you could easily see how it was threaded and learn how to do it yourself by following the threads.This is a 3/4 lay-in which means - it uses 2 needles to use 4 threads and 1 needle to use 3 threads.What it comes with:2 manuals, a quick reference guide for different stitches and a full featured manual (which you can also download on PDF from Brothers website)2 DVD's - One is an instruction how to and the other shows you different applications and opt feet you can buy. I also found some great You-Tube videos that show step by step how to thread this serger just type in the model number .Soft CoverAccessory bagtweezers (a must have!)Thread Netsthread spool capscleaning brushallen wrenchpressure footblind stitch foot (multi purpose foot)trim trapextra needlesIt does not come with:Brother SA212 Serger Elastic Application FootBrother SA213 Serger Gathering FootBrother SA150 Serger Pearl and Sequins FootBrother SA210 Serger Piping FootThese pressure feet you can order on Amazon and are less $$$ than ordering from Brother. I have ordered these now from Amazon but they have not come in yet. I can't wait to use them.After getting the serger and using it, I have had to order 2 additional sergers 1 for my mom (as her old serger does not have all the different features as this one does) and 1 for my sister.


