1350000000
2.0
review/summary: Great Machine if only it would sew....review/text: Ordered just before Christmas, but did not use until Feb to convert a pair of pants to shorts. No problems, was impressed with the needle threading option and being able to sew without a pedal.In April I decided to make a small 42x42 chenille quilt which uses a thickness of 1 cotton and 3 layers of flannel fabric. I finished about 1/8 of the project and the machine started making a clunking noise. I called Brother and they listened to the noise over the phone. They advised to keep using it and that 'sewing machines make noise' I advised it sounded like the gears were missing but I took their advice, the machine quit completely shortly after. Brothers advice then was to go to the nearest repair center which was about an hour away. I was not able to achieve this until Jul 7. Two weeks later I rec'd a call they had ordered parts and it would take 2 weeks. The beginning of Aug I rec'd another call a part was on back order, it would take another few weeks but they would call me. Sept 16 I was going to be in the area so I called them and miraculously it was ready and 'they were just about to call' From their work order it shows the machine was ready on the 8th, 2 months total in the shop. 2 weeks later I had an opportunity to work on my project. I sewed only 2 seams and the machine failed again. This was after they had replaced the motor, shaft and timing belt. The repair center refused to accept the machine, stating they had lost money and they felt the machine un-repairable. They called Brother who advised them to tell me to call for an RA to have the machine replaced. I called and they authorized a 'repair authorization' and I had to pay the shipping to return the un-fixable machine. The also said they would be repairing the machine not replacing as that is their policy. They did advise the turnaround time once in their hands was 8-10 days depending on the repair of course. So long story short, I think UPS dropped the machine or it is just a lemon and I wasted a lot of time and a bit of money for not much sewing. I had to call Brother as the RA did not arrive in my mailbox as they mis-typed my email. Long story short if the machine worked longer than an hour it would be a great machine with excellent accessories. Brother is not a responsive company and I have now ordered a Juki.. hopefully the Japanese have a more solid product.


