1353628800
5.0
review/summary: Really tried to like this machine.. UPDATEreview/text: I am new to the sewing world and had a difficult time trying to figure out how to thread it. My husband had to try to figure it out. Once you get passed the threading part, which the machine automatically threads the needle, sewing became a breeze. I was amazed at how quiet it sews. I am still learning how to measure accurately and straight but for the most part the machine guides you. It offers many types of sewing functions and comes with different needles to get you started in case the one needle breaks. For me, that was a plus! Over all I am amazed with the machine and hope to learn to quilt soon. I will update you at a later time once I get the hang of it. Shipping was prompt as I recieved it a day early! Replacement needles can be bought here on amazon for a low price. Thank you!UPDATE 11/30/12 - Threader needle eventually bent so getting thread through the needle is impossible. Will be contacting Brother for replacement part or looking for it online. So far machine works fine for quilting. Working on my 3rd quilt. Will be keeping you posted.UPDATE 12/1/2012 - contacted Brother regarding the Threader piece and yes they would cover the repair under warranty at an authorized Brother dealer. Unfortunatley for me that's about an hour and 15 mins away. Brother would not send me the threader for free; I had to pay for it. So much for warranty.. Anyway, The Threader assembly comes off easily as it slides off. Waiting for replacement arrive in the mail so that we can fix it.12/7/2012 - Replacement threader assembly arrived a few days ago and after a few threadings the middle needle bent again. So I had to go back to the old method of maually threading it with a threader. Also, this machine did not last very long. I was sewing this morning when the dogs decided to shred up the bobbing thread. Despite my best efforts to clean everything out it continued to shred and then eventually broke two needles. This was my breaking point and decided to package it up for return to Amazon. This is really bad timing considering I am making quilts for my niece and nephew and time is running out. So I had to run to Sears to purchase the Singer 2010 which seems to be working smoothly.Well, I have tried to keep you updated with my experience with this machine. If you are reading this chances are you're probably confused as the reviews are very mixed. I went based on the positive reviews, too. Despite what I wrote about the Brother Machine in my original posting, I admit that I loved some of the following features:* Brother offers the walking foot and many of the optional feet in addition to the basic accessories.* Awesome grid. It provides the 1/4 mark for sewing whereas the Singer does not. It made quilting easier.* The set up for winding the bobbin is fool-proof. I do wish the Singer made it that easy.* 60 built-in stitchesWhat I did not like:* Found the extension arm to be unstable during my quilting. When trying to push the material through the machine the legs on the extension arm would fold in making it more difficult. Yes, I am only a month in of learning to sew, but now that I have the Singer I am able to make some comparison.* Threader assembly failed to work* Warranty is only covered if you take it to an authorized dealer. Be sure you have a dealer close by* Dogs shredded bobbing thread on multiple occasions eventually leading to needle breakage and ruined fabric* Built-in light is not very brightAll in all I really did try to enjoy this machine. I wanted it to work and be able to provide a final positive review, but I can't. My journey and updates end here. I hope my review is somewhat helpful to you. I wish you the best!


