1355011200
4.0
review/summary: Great underwear, but it depends on what you do and what you wear.review/text: These boxer briefs are great for active wear, but they aren't the perfect for every occasion. I recently decided to invest a little more in my underwear collection, seeing as how you wear underwear every day. I'm glad I did, and between these Exofficios and Mack Weldons, I'm never going back to the cheaper ones.Like!- Feels like I'm wearing nothing at all (nothing at all... nothing at all...): They're very light, very breathable, and stretch nicely. I forget I'm wearing them, and they're not restrictive at all.- Long-lasting: The construction is good, and I can see these greatly outlasting typical underwear.- Dries quickly: The Exofficios themselves dry quickly. They won't be unpleasantly damp after a long, active day.No Like!- Waistband print kind of cheesy: It's a matter of personal taste, but I wish the waistband was just a solid color, without "EXOFFICIO" printed all over it. It's reminiscent of underwear from brands like Express or Armani Exchange and the like.- Remember when I mentioned that the Exofficios dry quickly? The fact that the Exofficios are non-absorbent is a blessing and a curse. The Exofficios work well, provided you're wearing looser, more airy clothing, and if you're doing activities that generate breeziness and circulation of air in your pants (like running, hiking, exercising, etc.). They work fine when I'm jogging in exercise shorts. To put it more simply, if your crotch can air-dry, then the Exofficios will work great. That being said, I usually wear slim/skinny pants, and I work an office job, so there isn't a lot of moving around. I've found that the Exofficios don't really wick away any moisture, and any dampness generated where the sun don't shine stays on my skin, and it can get pretty clammy.So, if you're looking for active underwear, the Exofficios are fantastic. But they're definitely not for every occasion. For casual wear, I've been wearing Mack Weldons (Amazon doesn't carry these at the moment), which are also designed very well, and they're more absorbent and better at keeping moisture off my crotch.


