1357689600
5.0
review/summary: Great multi-toolreview/text: As sharp as legendary and at a great price.I already own a Victorinox Trekker and a SD Classic, using one on the outdoors role and the other being on my first-aid kit. Then I wanted something for the city jungle indoors/outdoors. At first looked at the Tinker being lightweight and thinner and considered my use cases. Finally I opted for this model, being at the upper limit of what can be considered pocket-sized.Jeans with deep pockets are my usual clothing so I decided to go with the Champion Plus. I also got the Trekker on the same conditions and was unexpectedly comfortable. I'm not that much big of a guy but the weight/size is just fine with me. I also discovered that small cheap leather cellphone belt pouches were the right size to put the SAKs on my belt when not on my deep pocket jeans. So I have no excuses to be without my SAKs anywhere.The tools are easy to pull, it came very well oiled, the oil was literally dripping on some parts.The amount of tools for the price and quality you get is amazing, the Swiss Champions with the extra plies cost way more and is essentially the same. Just way thicker.. I already consider this Champion Plus on the upper limit, the Swiss Champ model seems to me to break the confort/size area. I don't know would buy or handle the XAVT model which go way bigger. So in my opinion the Champion Plus is in the border of the absolute zone of practicality.I already used most of the tools, the wood and metal saws along the chisel are awaiting their first real test. I'm a little skeptic about the the metal saw, since inox steel is usually not harder than other steels, with inox. being corrosion resistant as its main feature. In my recent experience this steel is quite resistant to mechanical stress having as baseline the flat screwdriver when used to pry open panels on walls, wooden box and similar stuff. That is assuming that the same steel is used on all the tools. Which seems the case.The blades are really sharp, don't play with them and when closing them don't understimate their length, I found out this the wrong way with the short blade, after all is short I thought.. The cut was so clean on the surface of my finger that I did not notice the cut until it bled a few minutes later, after treating the wound the cut is barely noticeable using the included magnification glass. Just like the trekker blade is the closest to a Samurai Katana sharpness you'll ever get without a true Samurai Katana. I used it to prepare some food, it slices through meat and vegetables alike like on butter.The scissors are great and easy to use.The can opener is the exact one that comes on the Trekker with a small flat screwdriver on the point.The other screwdrivers and tools work well as far as I used them. I have not abuse it heavily yet. I heard that the inox metal that Victorinox uses is a little brittle, in my experience is has not broken yet, I saw some youtube videos where some even use them in the &#34;hammering&#34; method of cutting wood. While the main blade is too short for trying this and I'm not that willing to abuse my SAK blade when the wood saw would make more sense, it seems that at least some people got lucky while abusing their SAKs. Experience and luck will definitely be varied, specially when using on unintended roles.Lastly I wish this Champion Plus could lock its blade like the Trekker, but that would came at the cost of thickness or some tools. So the Champion Plus is the optimal Jack of all Trades for me.Good thing there are so many models, bad thing there are so many models..


