1359417600
1.0
review/summary: DO NOT BUY FROM THIS COMPANY WHATSOEVER!!!review/text: Reading the reviews I was certain a size medium would still fit me, after all, that's the size of yoga pants that always has worked for me. I was wrong!! These run small, by one size, so seriously consider buying a large if usually a medium works for you. Don't make the mistake I did thinking the sizing was normal,and then receive the product, try them on, just to be extremely disappointed. I then tried to contact the company for another issue and they were extremely rude and unprofessional. I will not be giving this company any more of my business because of this. I will put my money into a company who has the know how to treat their customers with respect!I am now adding to this review I did a few weeks ago. I returned the item to the company. I wasn't paying attention and didn't realize there was some dog hair on them so they returned the item back to me and will not be issuing a refund. They accused me of being a dirty person and the manager of the company said he was so disgusted when opening the package he wanted to get the item away from him and wash his hands as soon as possible. Seriously?? A little bit of dog hair on the pants and you freak out and accuse me of being a dirty person? I will never under any circumstances give this company another dime and I hope none of you decide to either. If a company doesn't have ethics enough to not accuse their customers of being dirty, which by no means am I, I will not give them my business. I was treated with disrespect, I was accused of things I am not, and I was made to feel that I didn't matter to a company I was purchasing from and frankly we work too hard for our money to let it be wasted on a company like this. Please take this review under consideration when thinking of purchasing from this company and go elsewhere!!!! It will save you money, trouble, anger and harsh judgement from someone who knows not what they are speaking of!


