1355443200
4.0
review/summary: Great fit, but NOT all-weather. And some annoying seams...review/text: Using the sizing chart is absolutely necessary, I used it and the gloves I got fit like... well, like a glove I guess. No but seriously, they almost feel custom-made for my hands, with the possible exception of the pinky finger, which is slightly longer than I would need it to be. I have thicker hands and fingers though, so someone with long, slender hands may have different results.The material is fairly thin, especially the neoprene or whatever it is on the back, so you really shouldn't expect these to be useful for biathlons or anything like that. Also, the seams in the fingertips are pretty &#34;feel-able&#34; (is that a word?), especially in whatever finger happens to be the tightest for you, and it can get a little annoying if you pay attention to it for too long, but this is probably going to be a very minor issue for most people.Another problem I have with these gloves is the way the velcro wrist strap leaves a gap in the glove. You probably can't tell from the pictures, but the wrist has a slit running about 2 inches up the thumb-side of the glove from the bottom. The strap is attached to one side of this slit, and you pull it over to supposedly close it up. I guess this is for adjustability and for ease of getting them on/off, but when you put them on and strap them up, it will make for a little patch of exposed skin between your thumb and wrist. Another reason why these gloves are NOT all-weather. I had to resort to getting black sleeves with thumb-holes to go underneath the gloves, in order to preserve the integrity of my &#34;heat seal&#34; as it were.I don't wanna end on a bad note though, because these really are good gloves for the price. They have some extra grip pads sewn into the palm and 3 of the fingertips (not the index finger, probably for trigger purposes) which is a nice bonus. If you're on a tight budget and you live in Miami I would say go ahead and get these, but if not, and if you're looking for something for cold/wet weather use, invest in something a little more rugged.


