1360713600
5.0
review/summary: Serpa for Walther P99 and PK380review/text: This holster is worth every single penny! I was looking for a good OWB holster for a Walther PK380, as it is my favorite for conceal and carry. The thing is, i could hardly find ANY holsters for it! Apparently the PK380, while popular, does not have a huge market for OWB holsters. The ones that i could find were "multi-gun" holsters that weren't perfect fits, and i also found ones that were super expensive that i didn't even like to begin with. After spending hours looking for the perfect holster I decided to take a gamble on the Walther P99 "size" of this BlackHawk Serpa make. The P99 is the PK380's bigger brother. I own both the Walther PK380 and the Walther P99 so it wouldn't of been a huge loss if the 380 didn't fit, but i am extremely happy to say that the holster fits both guns PERFECTLY! Both guns "click" into place, there is no movement whatsoever, it is a comfortable holster, and both guns release from the holster with ease. I didn't even touch the tension screw, forgot all about it, because it worked for both of my guns from the get go.I have added two photos in the Customer Photo section. One is with the P99 in the holster and one is with the PK380 in the holster. I walked past a mirror while wearing one of the guns in the holster, while not wearing a shirt at home, and inadvertently realized that my tattoo that i got 5 years ago went hand in hand with part of what a holster and gun stand for. So, i thought it was a nice touch. The quote is from the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier. Bottom right is initials of my name and handle that i put on all pictures.Now, i have to mention that in the pamphlet it does say not to use the holster with guns that aren't on the compatibility chart, or use guns with holsters of the wrong size. I would call and ask before you purchase this holster. So this is just a reminder that this holster technically isn't labeled for the PK380. No idea why, because both guns fit perfectly, but it isn't labeled so call the company before trying to use it for the Walther PK380.Hope this review helps! I know there are a lot of PK380 owners struggling with finding a quality OWB holster option that isn't super expensive.


