1360713600
4.0
review/summary: Good program, great workout!review/text: This is a great workout if you're willing to invest an hour or more each day! My daughter got me started with this program. She is a Team Beachbody coach. I'm just finishing week 3!I'm 54 years old now, and although I've been athletic all my life, arthritis and complacency have gotten the better of me! Now, 2 knee replacements later, I'm trying to get back to a size 36&#34; waist! This workout is helping me achieve that.Having said that, this workout is not for the beginner athlete or someone wishing to do a casual workout! Although I try to push myself to keep up with Tony Horton ( they move along at a pretty quick pace) I've had to modify many of the movements. For example, I do lat pull downs on my home gym instead of pull ups. i can do 2 pull ups, or 12 lat pull downs with 200 lbs.. That's my choice! Instead of real manly pushups, I do them from my knees. My daughter and I call the &#34;puss ups&#34;. Whatever!! This is acceptable if you keep your eye on your goal and remember that it's improvement, not perfection that counts. I'm not trying to get ripped, I'm trying to lose weight and I don't want to get hurt.I recommend that if you do purchase this workout, you read the book first, and review the movements that are required. Some of the the exercises are tricky to do and require much balance and some agility! I've even started previewing the DVD's first the day before to see what they're like. I have found that I get a better workout the first time around, because i'm paying more attention to working myself and less attention on how to do it.I definitely recommend this to anybody trying to take your workout to the next level, or kick your metabolism back into gear , like me! Tony Horton is a great motivator. Although i don't look forward to crawling out of bed at 5:30 every morning, once I'm up I definitely look forward to watching the DVD and joining in! Tony Horton makes you feel like you're part of the group!


