1354233600
4.0
review/summary: Comfortable fit, easy adjust, supports my mp3 player, i get more laps in per hour - will buy againreview/text: These are now my go-to goggles. Goodbye speedo.** I get more laps per hour with the Kaiman - this is why:I'd been primarily wearing speedo air seal tri mirrored goggles for about 6 months even though I had to stop every two laps to clear goggle fog. I kept my speedo sprints as a spare. The final straw came with my tri speedos after I got a waterproof mp3 player for my hour long lap sessions. The player attaches to the goggle straps - the weight of the player plus the drag of the water kept pulling the strap on the speedo tris right out of the hook. I spent a couple sessions stopping to clear the fog from the speedos, more time to stop and reach back to check & tighten the straps but the strap would still slip right out. I was losing a lot of time standing around adjusting and clearing the speedos.I started looking for goggles that were a little more secure than a simple strap pulled through a hook loop. In the Kaiman photos I saw the strap had 'notches' on them. I was a little reluctant to buy another pair of goggles since i already had two pair. During the next week, the speedo strap failed twice during one session and I told my wife I'd had enough and was getting the Kaimans.And I'm glad I did. No fog to clear. No straps coming undone or loose. That is how I get more laps per hour (less time spent wrangling the goggles).No leaks. Very comfy. They did feel a little different the first time or two (but I got the small version so that might have something to do with it). They came with a solid closing hard case. The instructions weren't terribly clear with how to open the side buckles to adjust the straps but it didn't take long to figure out.No more strap slippage - I love it. Holds the weight of the mp3 player like a champ, even with the drag and violence of my graceless flip turns.The ease of adjustment and lack of strap slip is why I will be replacing the kids' goggles with Kaimans. That will save me (or my wife or the youngest one's swim instructor) more time.** Minor inconvenience (and the only thing that kept me from rating 5 stars)The right eye piece does get a some vision reduction after about 20-25 minutes. Its not fog and it certainly is nowhere near as irritating as the loss of vision in the speedo tris from fog. It could be coming from my eyelashes, maybe water left over from the preswim shower slowing building up on the lens as I blink. Or there could be very minor leakage from my eyebrow piercing maybe preventing a complete seal (which is part of why I got the small size, to minimize interference with the piercing).No problem on the left at all. I have no problem continuing to swim with that slightly obscured vision. Its still much clearer than the fog from the speedo tris.** A repeat customer is bornMy wife, our 3 kids and I go to the pool twice a week for at least an hour per session (swim lessons for the kids, ma kicks it in the warm water pool and I lap swim for the hour). Between the 5 of us, we've easily gone through 20+ goggles in 3 years. We've ranged from low end no-namers to some fairly pricey (even on sale) various speedo models.** Bottom line: When the time comes for replacements, it will be more Aqua Sphere Kaiman.


