1353888000
4.0
review/summary: Poor design but flawless manufacturingreview/text: PROS:*The Wharncliffe blade is perhaps the most useful blade shape for EDC pocket-knife duties. This is especially true when you add the partial serrations.*It's absolutely gorgeous with modern good looks. The mostly-stainless steel construction is very pleasant to look at and fondle. It's like a small, functional sculpture.*The speed-safe opening is fast and fun.*The pocket clip is good, and it doesn't tear up your pants because the all-metal frame is smooth rather than grippy.*The 'safety' can be tightened down so it no longer works. This is a good thing.*Amazon sometimes sells this for around 1/3 of the original street price. Discounts are always enjoyable.*Finally, a knife that doesn't have a black tactical-style handle that looks more at home in Darth Vader's hand than it does in a modern American's hand.*Thanks to the metal frame, it's very thin. This makes it ride very comfortably in your pocket. You can even put it in the coin pocket of your jeans.*Clip can be changed to either tip-up or tip-down.CONS:*Assisted opening knives are illegal to carry in some of the less liberal, more highly-regulated areas of America like NYC. They're completely verboten in places like Australia -- you can't even import them and keep them in your house.*Opening and closing is one-handed, but it's not effortless. Opening isn't effortless because (blame it on the design and materials) you have to work to get the knife positioned properly in your hand. Closing isn't effortless because you have to think about pushing the blade past the speed-safe spring. Compare this to something like the Kershaw skyline that you can open and close without even thinking about it. Good one-handed operation knives make it so you can eventually operate them without even thinking; this design will never allow you to do that.*The blade is small and delicate. The tip is ultra delicate. Couple this design with the high degree of hardness to which the blade steel is tempered, and you have a knife that almost certainly will end up with a broken tip if you drop it tip-down on a hard surface. These Kershaw sandvik blades are hardened as hard as (or greater than?) a file. In the past, this would have been considered unacceptable. These days, because most people don't know how to (or don't want to) sharpen their knives regularly, manufacturers (not just Kershaw) are making their blade steels harder and harder to aid with edge retention. This knife is light-duty only.*The knife is definitely heavy for its weight. A same-sized knife with non-metal handles will be significantly lighter.*The handle is very slippery. I imagine this is doubly true when you're perspiring or when the knife gets wet. Coupled with the knife's excessive 'heft', this makes it hard to 'feel' where the knife is in your hand and makes it hard to open if quickly. It's not too bad when you finally get the knife open and you have it positioned properly. Mostly, it's a problem because I fumble around with it for a second or two trying to find the flipper lever just after I get it out of my pocket. I don't have this problem with knives that have G10 handles or some other grippier handle material.*The 'safety' can engage unintentionally in your pocket. When this happens, it takes a few seconds for your brain to register why the knife suddenly refuses to open. It's like when people are not used to using a pistol with a safety, they keep trying to pull the trigger despite the fact that it's not firing. That's what happens with this knife safety. Disable it and the problem will go away.*Kershaw claims it's made in the USA -- actually, it's assembled here from foreign components. All the 'value added' takes place in other countries. The only actual 'work' done in the USA is to screw it together, grind the edge, stamp on the labels, and stick it in a box. (Or maybe that's a 'pro' since it keeps costs down?)*Lanyard hole is too small.*Torx screws are used. Better designs use phillips-head screws so they're more easily maintainable. Torx are no longer cool, they're just annoying, especially to casual knife enthusiasts who don't enjoy tinkering with their knives.


