1351036800
5.0
review/summary: The most intense 20 minute workout I have experiencedreview/text: BACKGROUND:I recently completed theP90X: Tony Horton's 90-Day Extreme Home Fitness Workout DVD Program. For those that do not know, the P90X is a 90 day program that focuses on strengthening exercises. I was able to become stronger as well as toning and developing the muscles that I have but was not able to lose as much weight and fat as I desired. Also, I realized that the cardio portions of the P90x program were a great weakness of mine and have an interest in theINSANITY: 60-Day Total Body Conditioning Workout DVD Program.Jumping straight into the P90x program was an eye opening experience. I thought I was in shape but after the first week realized how unprepared I was for the program. Before jumping headlong into the Insanity program, I first want to see if I am physically prepared for what lies ahead of me as well as make sure this program is in line with what I need for my continued physical development.This DVD is a 20 minute DVD. It is designed as an introductory DVD to the program of Insanity as well as a supplement if you are unable to do a full 40+ minute workout.USEAGE:I prepared myself for the 20 minutes which I thought would go by rather quickly. I was very VERY WRONG would be one day of describing the experience.The DVD is only 20 minutes but those 20 minutes are INTENSE from start to finish. You will be jumping, running, doing core work, ab work, and so much more. The routine is all over and truly is a full body work out. The main purpose for myself, of course, was the cardio aspect of the routine. I was dripping sweat and felt like I had just run a marathon afterwards.Shaun T is a very a very good instructor. It is obvious he is a positive man who enjoys what he does for a living and this helps with encouraging you to keep up the pace throughout the entire workout secession.I am glad I picked up this DVD. I began to incorporate it in my normal work out routine and combined it with Ab Ripper X from P90x to prepare for Insanity. Also is incredible on those days that I am unable to fit a full work-out secession in.PROS:++ Intense fitness routine++ Perfect if your short on time++ Great introductory and preparation for full Insanity Program++ No equipment needed other than equipment to play DVD and clothes to work out inCONS:++ NoneCONCLUSION:This is a great introductory for the full Insanity program to determine both if you are prepared enough for the program and to make sure the program is right for you. Also is a great supplement for those short on time or need variation.Highly recommended purchase


