1344297600
1.0
review/summary: nuclear-strength cooking: buyer bewarereview/text: This grill is very well-built and really looks great. Unfortunately the burners are set -very- close to the grill surface, so your temperature choices are basically high, extremely high and nuclear. Seriously. Some people here are actually saying 'you can't cover it at all or it will actually melt itself', and they appear to be right. If the burners were set 3 inches deeper this grill would function just fine. Regrettably this is not the case.Practically speaking, there is no low setting even though the knob says there is; for that matter there is not even a medium setting with this grill. For some basic cooking perspective, on a typical grill I usually cook steaks for 3 minutes a side turned 3 times, covered, for a total grill time of 12 minutes to get medium rare steaks 3/4 inches thick. With this grill? On the very lowest setting, covered, 3 minutes will blacken and nearly burn one side. Flip the steaks and another 3 minutes gives you well-done on the outside steaks that are raw in the middle. Thinner steaks become charred leather in 6 minutes. Leave the lid up while grilling and the outside burns and inside doesn't cook. Want to turn down the heat? You can't: this is what happens at the lowest setting. Complete. design. disaster.I'm trying to figure out if limiting the gas even more through another valve might somehow salvage the purchase, but overall this solid and sweet-looking grill is unworthy of you... unless you like your food well-done or incinerated. I feel like I was just robbed of $160; as it currently exists this grill is virtually useless. Hope I can modify it somehow. Very disappointed.I am completely baffled at how highly rated this grill is. It doesn't make any sense. I would suspect that there are some units that might be somehow defective but this isn't a defect of manufacture; this grill is very well-built. This is instead a defective design. Unless you like charred food of course.For now I am back to using my crappy $20 portable gas grill, which easily outperforms this Coleman design disaster. DON'T BUY THIS.


