1347321600
4.0
review/summary: They seem to be bigger now (2012)review/text: I get the impression that the folks who make Harbinger gloves have finally responded to the people who've been complaining about the sizing on the 143's running small. I usually wear large in lifting gloves, but was considering getting XL in these the next time I bought some, as previous "larges" were indeed too tight. However, I tried some large 143's recently (mid-2012) and noticed that they were now what I would consider a genuine large...not mediums they call "large."UPDATE: After comparing my very latest pair (late September 2012) to previous pairs, I have to conclude that not all 143's are created equal. The manufacturing/material/sizing of these gloves is inconsistent. The latest pair, for example, didn't include a label indicating the size (and had a black "Harbinger" label rather than the usual white), though they were most certainly LARGE, and not "large" which are too small and tight. However, it appears that some people are still receiving "larges" that would be better described as Medium or Small. Some are made from a more stiff material than others. If you are ordering these online, you can't be certain what you will receive, but they should be pretty good IF they fit.I've used these in the past, and will continue to buy them unless/until I find something better. THE MAIN REASON I USE THESE is that they're relatively comfortable with pull-ups, which I perform 3X per week on a bar that I mounted in the "doorway" of my garage attic access. It's actually an unpadded stainless steel lat pulldown bar with a rough "gripping" texture on it--much too rough for bare fingers. And yeah, the 143s' DO become wrinkly and uncomfortable at the fingers kinda quickly--at least the smaller "large" ones did; I'll have to see how it goes with these newer (2012), larger ones. (BTW, for those doing dips on a dip stand {such as theUltimate Body Press Dip Stand} I recommendHarbinger 1215 Big Grip II Weight Lifting Gloves. The 1215's have been described as having "too much padding" in the palm area, which makes them unusable for pulling exercises such as curls and pull-ups...and I agree. But all of that palm-padding makes them perfect for doing dips on a dip stand, as well as bench presses!)


