1349222400
1.0
review/summary: Leaks over timereview/text: When I first purchased this thermos, I was amazed by how hot it kept my tea and coffee. I had to actually cool down my drinks before pouring into the thermos, or I wouldn't be able to drink them 1-2 hours later without the risk of burning myself. The thermos was also leakproof with a nice flip-top that can be opened with just one hand, and locked to keep it from opening by accident from being jostled around in your bag. Spill-proof and perfect heat insulation -- would have definitely rated five stars if the thermos had stayed that way.A couple of weeks into using the thermos, it began to leak. I had to add an extra step into my daily routine, shaking the thermos to make sure the seal was tight before putting it into my bag. But even when I double- and triple-checked to make sure that the seal was perfect, my drink would still leak somehow. Frustrated, I called Thermos-Nissan to get a new thermos. They let me keep the old top as an extra. Happy with my new leakproof thermos when it finally arrived, I began to use it again -- and again it started to leak a few weeks later.I've had to resort to enclosing my thermos in a plastic bag wherever I go. Even so, sometimes the drink will leak out and get all over my bag. The thermos still keeps my drink warm, but not nearly as well as when I first got it. Now it will only keep my drink at the same temperature for a few hours. It's a hassle and a waste of time to send in my thermos again, and be without a drink container for another two weeks waiting for the new one, and I don't have much faith in a third thermos after seeing the first two leak like this. I shouldn't have to supplement what is supposedly a leakproof container with a plastic bag every day just to ensure that my drink doesn't spill. On top of that, a thermos that supposedly keeps a drink hot for 8 hours now only does it for about 2-3. For the price I paid, I expected better results than your average thermos, but I guess I should just stick to the free ones I can get from the bank.


