1354060800
5.0
review/summary: Makes Cooking Fun!review/text: I had a perfectly seasoned cast iron skillet about 30 years ago, until a friend house-sat for me. He left spaghetti w/sauce in it for two weeks (shoved it in the oven and forgot about it). By the time I found it, it had started to rust, and I was so mad I just threw the whole mess out, pan and all. I've regretted it ever since.I don't know why it took so long to rediscover cast iron, but after eyeing some pieces, I stumbled across this set at the local military base. I bought it because I thought it was a great value, only to discover later I could have saved another $5 buying it here. Oh well....I really love this cookware. Both pieces come pre-seasoned, so you can use them right away. Clean-up was a little tedious at first because I was probably being overly cautious, but I followed the advice in the accompanying literature and used course salt, a brush, and hot water. After drying thoroughly, I put it back on the stove on low heat and apply a thin coating of Crisco. As many have noted, the more times you use these pieces, the easier they are to clean. And even though it might seem like a lot of extra work to dry and re-oil the pan after every use, I kind of enjoy the ritual.As for cooking, I like to bake lasagna, and the first time I used this set (the deep pan) for cooking the meat sauce was an absolute pleasure. The hamburger cooked up nice and evenly, much differently than it does in my T-Fal Dutch oven. The cast iron sears the juices in, and the meat was browned in no time. The most amazing part was the clean-up. With the T-Fal, you can rinse out the no-stick pan under hot water, but when you run a dish cloth over it to scrub it out, the dish cloth comes out red and greasy from the residual tomato/meat sauce. With this Lodge skillet, a quick rinse with hot water removed every bit of tomato sauce. There wasn't a trace of tomato sauce on the paper towel when I finished drying the skillet with it. I was simply amazed at how easily it cleaned up.As with the hamburger above, everything else seems to cook up much more evenly, and comes out with a lot more flavor than it did with my previous cookware. Another thing that made me go back to cast iron is its versatility. Baking, broiling, frying - you name it - in a single pan. Not only that, it will work on induction cooktops (though you may want to take precautions against the pan scratching the induction surface - one site recommends parchment paper, or even sanding smooth the bottom of the pan.) And finally, it's durable. Take care of it, and it will be around longer than you will.Bottom line, this is a set of top-quality cookware. Yes, cast iron requires a little more TLC than other materials, but the benefits far outweigh this very small amount of effort. And if you've steered away from cast iron because the seasoning process seemed a little intimidating, Lodge has taken care of that for you. You have no more excuses - get this set and start enjoying cooking!


