1360540800
5.0
review/summary: Big value in a small packagereview/text: I've never seen or used a pedometer before, so I can't compare this one to any others, but I can say that I am very impressed! As I typically do, I researched pedometers before purchasing and read through many user reviews before deciding on this one.What I find most useful:*Step count seems to be accurate. This is why I bought it in the first place. I wanted to know for sure how much I was actually walking each day with my two dogs. Some days it felt like a mile, some days it felt like 5.*Shows steps taken (and how many of those steps were "aerobic" steps), miles walked (based upon what you enter as your own personal stride), calories burned (although I don't really find this feature that helpful).*It acts as a motivator. After I wore it long enough to judge how many steps I was taking on a "good day"....a day where I knew I had gotten alot of exercise....that became my goal every day, even on those days when 2 miles SEEMED like 5 but was actually only 1.*The digital readout is easy to see even when I don't have my glasses on.*Keeps a 7 day history (step count ONLY)*Automatically resets at midnight so you don't have to remember to reset it manually.*Small size makes it convenient and inconspicuous.*The "double clip" is very useful in my situation. I use the clip on the back of the device to clip it into my jeans pocket and the lanyard clip on my belt loop to make sure I don't lose it and also to make sure it's relatively stable since the directions make it sound like it won't stand up to alot of "jarring" movement.*For what you get, the price is very reasonable!The only negatives I can think of (and they're not a big deal):*The fact that you have to be sure it isn't laying on its face or back......won't work then. But, with practice plus having two ways to clip it to your clothing, etc., you soon learn how to anchor it securely enough to keep it properly positioned.*Would be nice if it would shut off after X number of hours with no activity. It's always on and there is no way to shut it off.I recommend this product. It's a very helpful tool for anyone wanting to know how much they're actually moving every day and not just for dieters. I plan to get my mother one of these to help keep her on track with her mobility-sustaining walking goals.


