1358985600
2.0
review/summary: Not very accurate for run-of-the-mill step-countingreview/text: My current cheapo pedometer is held on by a small clip. The clip is starting to break, so I went looking for a new pedometer. Based on good reviews, I purchased the Omron HJ-112. I am not a fan.The one positive thing I will say is that when I ran outside on pavement, it was very accurate. I tested it out, running a couple hundred steps (counted in my head) and then checking the pedometer's count. I did this a few times, and it was always accurate, in most cases to the exact step count. That's very good, and the reason I am giving this produce 2 stars instead of 1.However, I found that more typical, run-of-the-mill walking was being woefully undercounted. Whether it was walking around my house (no shoes usually) or my office (with shoes), I wasn't getting my full steps counted. I even tried having the old pedometer I'm replacing on one hip and this new Omron on the other and found the old one still more accurate. (Yes, I did a couple of quick tests, counting steps in my head, so it's not a matter of the old pedometer being overzealous in its counting -- if anything, it undercounts, too, just not as bad.)I also think the Omron is a bit overcomplicated for my needs. For instance, it stores the last seven days of step counts. This sounds great on the surface, but it automatically cuts off steps at midnight. I am often up a little later than midnight and I tend to consider the small number of steps I get in in the wee hours to be part of the previous day's count. With this pedometer, though, there's no easy way to reset the count once I wake up the next morning, so I am pretty much forced to include post-midnight steps on the literal day on which they occur. (I realize that this will not be an issue for everyone.)Also, the Omron is bulky -- to the point where it would sometimes fall of my belt. (In fairness, it does come with a few different suggestions on places you can wear it besides a belt, but none of them appealed to me.)I think I'll be going back to a simpler pedometer. I was going to potentially use the Omron as a backup, but it's so very off on its step count, I'm not sure how much use it would be. Glad to see that others on here have had better luck!


