1349308800
5.0
review/summary: Invicta 8926 OB GREAT Value!!!review/text: I never write reviews, but I now feel I must. I ordered the Invicta 8926OB a few weeks ago expecting to get the Miyota Movement and a Mineral crystal. By all accounts that was a very good value. To my suprise, I received the Invicta with the Seiko NH35A movement and the "flame fusion" crystal. I didn't know much about mechanical watches when I ordered this watch, but have now done some research. First, the new NH35A movement is hand windable and will "hack". I love both features. On the weekends I can simply hand wind the watch and not worry about it stopping if I am not wearing it. The hack feature simply means the second had will stop when the stem is pulled out to the third position, whcih make it easy to set exactly to atomic time. When I first got the watch, it ran about 7 seconds a day fast, which is pretty good, I thought. After a couple of weeks it settled into running only 4 seconds per day fast. I had actually read this same scenario from another reviewer. I do not know if "flame fusion" is a gimick or not, but have read several reviews that seem to confirm the crystal is much better than a simple mineral crystal. While I am not a watch expert, the fit and finish on this watch seem excellent. The braclet even has solid links. I would recommend this watch to anyone looking for a diver style watch. How can it be sold so cheap with so many great features? I have read several articles that state 9 out of 10 of these watches are great. Unortunately if you get the 1 in 10 that is not so great, Invicta is not so pleasant to deal with. I am just hoping I got one of the great watches, which seems to be the case.One other feature I particualrly like is the transparent back case. You can see the movement, which looks virtually identical to the seiko branded 7S36 or 6R15 and is clearly marked NH35A. you can even go to the Seiko Instruments Inc. site and download the movement specifications and other diagrams. It is listed as a mechancial watch as opposed to the premium mechanical watches such as the 6R15. However the 6R15 seems to only come in wathces that cost $500 to $1000 dollars. Invicta seems to be the only company selling the NH35A movment for such a reasonable price. The Lum-Tec watches with the same movement will cost you over $500. All in All this watch is a great value.


