1347753600
4.0
review/summary: comfort, style, and a great price for a pair of shoesreview/text: The way one dresses is a form of expressing our likes and interests, we express our style down to the shoe, literally. Having such a vast variety of brands to chose from, what style and price suits best to an individual can be challenging. So why not save a couple dollars on a good pair of shoes that can give you style, comfort, and suit both male and female gender? Converse foot wear is the perfect answer for all of these categories by offering everything one can ask for. What was started in 1908 by Marquis Mills Converse with Chuck Taylor joining in 1918 as a sneaker for athletic wear would become a stye trend by the 1950's. The Chuck Taylor All Star collection is the most popular collection from the converse brand with the wide range of colors it has to offer.In this tough economic time everyone is trying to get the best deal on the products they want most, no one wants to spend over one hundred dollars on a pair of shoes because we cannot afford it, or we're just trying to spend our money wisely. Converse prices range anywhere from thirty to eighty dollars depending on the style of the shoe. Some of Converse competitors are Nike and Vans both having decent shoes but at ridiculous prices both having shoes start at fifty dollars and going over a hundred dollars, which is not worth the money. Luckily All Stars can save you a couple dollars and still be stylish.Not only is the price reasonable for this product but you also get an enormous variety of colors to select from making your possibilities endless. From personal experience I have used over 10 pairs of Chuck Taylor's and have many colors and styles to chose from. This collection being my favorite, with the options of choosing either high tops or the classic low tops one cannot go wrong.The classic style of the black and white low top is simply a must have for everyones closet. These shoes are long lasting and comfortable to wear the entire day. Having worn both Vans and Nike's in the past they were no where near being as comfortable as chucks are. No one wants to walk around with blisters on there feet from having a bad pair of shoes.Converse suit a broad range of ages from infants, teenagers, to young adults and even mature adults. Both male and female foot wear run in very similar looks making it almost hard to know which shoe is male and which is female which is great. From previously being a high school student and now in college I saw that this age group gets the biggest use out of chucks since they have a simple sold look to them and in no way are uncomfortable. These shoes are for a more casual look, and fit to any persons style, so they're for every day use making it easy in the morning not having to decided what style of shoe you'll wear because you'll know exactly what pair of shoe to reach for.Having comfort, style, and a great price for a pair of shoes makes ones choices endless, and makes you want to get more than just one pair of shoes. So why wouldn't you want to go get a pair of Chuck Taylor Converse, It is the best choice you can ask for and you most defiantly wont regret buying this pair of shoes. Best way to go is to purchase a cheap pair of shoes that look great a provide the best comfort as apposed to having a good looking pair of shoes on the exterior and uncomfortable on the interior.


