1359244800
3.0
review/summary: Leaks a Little!review/text: I have purchased four different water bottles this school year alone as my kid is allowed to keep a water bottle on the desk during school. I really liked this water bottle, looks-wise but more importantly because its interior body was NOT made of plastic. I ordered the Klean Kanteen with a Poly Sport 2.0 cap, the easiest cap for a kid to use during class as it does not require complete removal and it functions like a traditional sports water bottle, just pull the top open and drink. For a kid, this limits the potential for making a mess at school. Unfortunately, once I received the water bottle, I learned via its instruction booklet that the Sport Cap's top leaks a little from the tiny ventilator hole at its base. (The ventilator hole can be seen in some of the Sport Cap 2.0 pictures; it appears as a "white dot" at the base of the Sport Cap.) Well, a little leakage does occur, and even a little leak does not bode well within a child's backpack; whether walking to school or taking the backpack on and off, a little leak ends up making a little mess inside the backpack. To solve this, after filling the Kanteen and screwing the top back on, I wrap the top in a paper towel and keep it in place with a rubber band. Certainly, not the added step one would want to do, but it does the job and absorbs the little resulting leaks. By the way, I also learned that filling the Kanteen too close to the top will really make the top leak!! Wish the Sport Cap 2.0 was simply leak-proof as that would give it five stars! Thanks. (The Sport Cap 2.0 came with an extra circular piece which is placed at the base of the top when screwing the entire top back on the Kanteen. This extra piece is not shown on Amazon. On one end of this extra piece is an additional cap. This additional cap fits over the Sport Cap itself. When this extra cap is pushed securely into place, it ensures the Sport Cap does not inadvertently move up and into the "drink" position. Unfortunately, this extra piece does not stop the ventilator leak, but it does work well at keeping the Sport Cap in the closed position.)


