1355356800
5.0
review/summary: Tips from a long-term owner/userreview/text: I have used one of these Nissan Thermos bottles for over 8 years for both hot and cold liquids and I can honestly say that I have never used a finer product. I have noticed a lot of comments about leaking so I thought that I would throw out a few things that I have learned over the years. I am going to assume that the newer ones made in China are made as well as the older ones.My usage conditions have been in a old car where the bottle flies around as there are no cup holders, airplanes, backpacks, foreign countries, metal shop, sculpture shop, office, outdoors, etc. I have not been easy on my Thermos and it has hit the ground many times. So hopefully these tips will help.1. As pointed out by others, make sure that you do NOT overfill the Thermos. Make sure that it is below the "bulge" in the metal.2. If you want to keep your hot drink REALLY hot, preheat the Thermos with boiling water. Caution: you may end up burning your tongue.3. Cleaning is REALLY important especially if you are using milk, sugar or the like. I have found that one sure way to get leaks is to let the gasket that goes around the cap get too dirty. Periodically, GENTLY take it off and clean off any built up debris. Use a toothbrush or the like to clean in the ridges and on the lid itself. If need be use your fingernail to get off anything that seems lodged. Don't worry about any staining, it won't affect the performance or cause leakage. While your at it, removed the silicon piece connected to the flip portion and wash it too. Give the lid a good washing and let everything dry out. If your stainless has become stained, denture cleaner works wonders or anything else that you would use to clean out a coffee pot.4. When you replace the parts that you have cleaned make sure that they are re-seated properly.5. When you screw on the top, make sure that everything was dry so that you don't prevent the seal from sealing. And twist on snugly. I am usually listening for a squeekish sort of sound. When it slides way to easily, I clean everything per step 3.6. Inspect the gaskets periodically. I am sure that they can break, although I am still using my original ones without problems.7. For Nissan reps if you are reading this - make replacement parts readily available- this should be the entire top, the round gasket and the top gasket . These used to be available and I have never needed one but if I do, the green thing is to replace parts, not the entire Thermos. Please make the parts available together and separately at a reasonable price.I hope that this helps. If I have missed something or it isn't clear I am happy to help.Liz


