1350864000
5.0
review/summary: Worth every penny invested since its an investment in YOURSELFreview/text: BACKGROUNDI am a disabled veteran that was recently medically retired from the military. In the few months that I have been out of the service, I will sadly admit I have reached a sad level of physical condition that the service took ten years to help me achieve.With my physical disabilities and my lack of physical fitness, I attempted to join a gym to get back in shape. Unfortunately, I found I lacked the motivation on my own. I needed assistance through direction and coaching as well as the feeling I was doing exercises as a group.Enter P90x.After using this program, though, I realized the investment was worth every penny because I was actually investing in myself. I lost over 18 pds, 2 inches off my waist, yet bulked up at the same time and have a nice, lean, muscular body. I feel a lot better both physically and mentally and am not afraid to be in a swimsuit anymore nor nude in front of my wife.PACKAGINGInside the package are the DVDs that you will be watching and exercising to on a daily basis, a fold out chart showing you the different phases and programs available, as well as detailed book on eating the proper Diet. Yes, one of the biggest portions of success under the P90X is the proper diet. If you are not eating the proper meals, you will not be giving your body the proper nutrients to lose weight as well as develop the muscles, which you will, following this program.USEAGEBefore using this program, you should be in some type of shape. There is a test in the included booklet that helps to determine what level you are at. My recommendation is that you do some push ups, pull ups, sit ups, and some type of cardio exercise for a few weeks prior to get the full amount of usage out of P90X as well as prepare you for your first round.The P90x is a program that is done on a daily basis for around an hour a day, sometimes less, sometimes more. This means that the program requires true dedication as you really cannot miss any days. Also, you need to follow the diet or, at the very least, be eating healthy as well at the same time.You cannot cheat yourself. If you cheat yourself on this program by quitting early or not pushing yourself like you are suppose to, you will not get the results you desired which made you purchase the program in the first place.The program does require some additional items. You need some of the following:* resistance bands* chin up bar* dumb bell weights either dial-a-weight or variable weightsP90X OR INSANITY PROGRAMIf your goal is to build muscle, then P90x is your program. If your sole goal is to lose weight, then Insanity is your program. Yes you may and, chances are, will, lose weight with P90X but the P90X focus is more on strength training while Insanity is focused more on cardio exercises and burning more calories which can, and does, lead to greater weight loss.The most important aspect of both programs, though, is the diet portion as well as not cheating yourself by actually pushing yourself to its limits and beyond.CUSTOMER SUPPORTThere is a number you can call as well as an extensive forum with other participants of P90X that you can communicate with as well as encourage through the different phases and rounds of P90XPROS:++ It produces results advertised as long as you follow directions and push yourself++ Package is well organized as well as routines and program.CONS:++ Requires around 1+ hrs a day, everyday, for 90 days++ Requires some equipment such as dumbbells, pull up bar, or resistant bands to be effectiveCONCLUSION:This program is well worth the investment. Some individuals state it is too expensive. I have to ask, what is your health worth to you? After seeing the results appear after only the first two to three weeks, I realized that I AM WORTH EVERY PENNY. THis program is highly recommended for anyone that wants to improve their strength and muscle mass.


