1347408000
4.0
review/summary: Caveat emptorreview/text: I am 5'11" male with frequent back problems since military injury. After weeks of back-pain in the summer of 12 I bought this item hoping my "core" muscles might alleviate my terrible pain.I got rid of my primary chair at home and inflated the ball. Immediately I set to work: I sat on the ball often and rotated left, right, forward, backward- increasing muscular tension on midsection. Within 3 hours my 6 week old back pain decreased. Within two days I was running again outside. I sit and flex midsection, and stabilize on this ball for hours a day and my entire abd and sides are now getting hard as rock (14 days now).I never used the plastic chair module. It is simply too tall. I also bought the height extenders but never used them as well. I bought a pump but the item comes with one in the box. After few days I lost the pretense and sent the plastic chair to the basement. Personally, I would only buy the a ball.Sitting on this ball as a primary choice has in 14 days given me a midsection I had in youth.No, the ball does not hurt my butt. Yes, my abs are more or less flexed constantly. But after 14 days my abs now drop into a flexed state with even minimum effort or rotation in simple tasks. I feel like I discovered something really great.UPDATE: this item has not survived one season of use. Indeed it is now the end of November and this product has lost all it's air from the central seam, not near a valve. It's actually blown open a hole in the seam approximately the size of a nickel- rendering the product worthless and irreparable. In conclusion, don't waste your money. It's a ball that helps your back, not this ball!UPDATE: As this item (Ball)failed rather quickly (and it was only being used to sit on at the desk). I then purchased a Go Fit Ball for near $26. The new ball is stronger, more solid, cheaper, and unquestionably contrasts itself with this Gaiam Ball/Chair. For sure if you are seeking a ball only, there are better choices.


