1358899200
3.0
review/summary: Good and functional with the same flaws as the rest.review/text: I ordered two of these bottles. They work as you would expect them to. Like seemingly all other travel mugs/bottles they have one fatal flaw. The person who designs them apparently never has to clean them.Here I have three major complaints:1) The air hole is roughly 2mm by 15mm. I'm sure this achieves an excellent flow rate for the beverage contained within. However, how, exactly, am I supposed to clean this? I use the bristles on my bottle brush and poke them through the wee hole in an attempt to dislodge anything that might have accumulated. I never really feel as though I've effectively cleaned it.2) The molded rubber seal (blue) that seals the drinking and air holes when the lid is closed has a little flap runs around the perimeter of the area where the seal attaches to the top of the lid. This flap is presumably there to act as a secondary seal in the event that the molded nubs that press against the drinking and air holes fail to do their job. It's probably good that this is there, as I can see that coffee occasionally gets that far. However, this flap creates another area that's impossible to clean with any level of confidence.3) The molded seal is attached to plastic base that snaps into the top of the lid assembly. This was not designed to be easily removed. Normally, this shouldn't be an issue, as the seals are supposed to keep your beverage out of this area. In general, this is true. However, in the real world, I would like to be able to detach this so that I can SEE that there isn't anything back there.TLDR: The lid is well designed for it's intended use. However, like all travel mugs/bottles, the manufacturer has forgotten that we need to be able to clean the lid.Note to the manufacturer: I would be happy to pay at least double the price of this bottle for a leak proof vacuum mug/bottle that has a lid that is designed to be disassembled COMPLETELY for cleaning. Dishwasher safety on the disassembled lid would bring that to at least triple. Yes, I would happily spend $60 per mug or more, if I knew that I could use it for more than 6 months without feeling like I'm drinking from a Petri dish. I'm fine with hand washing the stainless vacuum bottle as a bottle brush makes quick work of that, and there is really no reason for a nonstick coating or other inferior designs.


