1354579200
5.0
review/summary: Great set of cooking pansreview/text: I just got this set of pans. I love cooking with Cast Iron, yes it can be a little tempermental if you do not understand how to cook with these types of pans, but there is no subsitute for cooking with Iron. the pans come Pre - seasoned, but my advice is to go ahead and season them yourself before you do any serious cooking with these pans. there are two methods to seasoning ( well there are more than two but bear with me for a second) the first way is to wipe a pan down with vegatable oil and heat it in the oven at 200 degrees for an hour. it works, but I prefer the Country / Cowboy method. it is a simple method. cook something fatty and greasy it these pan! Bacon is best, fry up some bacon in the pan. heat up the pan slightly on low heat for a few minutes, but before the pan get cooking hot. lay a few slices of bacon in the pan and turn up the heat. fry the bacon. use a metal spatula or pancake turner and scrape any bacon bits free from the bottom of the pan and pour off most of the grease into a grease can or coffee MUG and let the grease cool - be careful its hot. then let the pan cool off a bit. use a paper towel (WHEN THE GREASE IS WARM BUT NOT HOT. HOT GREASE BURNS!!) and wipe down the inside of the pan well and put the pan it the oven or a dry place. after cooking in the pan a few times you will build up a film of carbon that is practacally non stick. this is what you want. Iron heats evenly and cooks loke a dream once you have built up this non stick coating. Iron is (duh) IRON it will last 3 lifetimes if you take care of it and 2 lifetimes if you treat it like crap. rust scrubs off and you can re season a pan if you mess the coating up. Iron is the absoulute best when it comes to frying and Baking (yes baking) cornbread is what most people know about, but cowboys and Country folks use to bake white bread and even Pies over a campfire with Iron pots and pans. I am VERY HAPPY with this purchase. this combo cooks pork chops wonderfully, and you can use the other pan as a lid to cut down on spatters if you need to. for the price I paid, this is WELL worth the price! I have seen this exact same set at over 40 dollars and Amazon sells this for much less. if you are looking for Cast Iron pans for your kitchen, this combo is the best bang for your buck, hands down.


