1347840000
4.0
review/summary: BASIC scooter for KIDS and SMALL adultsreview/text: I remember having a Razor A Kick Scooter about a decade ago when the original first came out, and it was pretty handy for traveling short distances (e.g. to/from school or neighbor's house) when a bike wasn't necessary. It was a fun, easy, and convenient to ride...until someone borrowed mine indefinitely. Now, as a college student, I wanted a scooter as a means of transportation to grab lunch and run errands off campus without the hassle of driving my car.I must say that this A Kick Scooter is just as awesome as the original I had a decade ago:+ looks pretty much the same+ conveniently folds up the same+ rides smoothly just as before+ no annoying wheelie bar+ different colors to choose from+ brakes on back wheelSimilarly, it still has the same problems as before:- the brakes don't slow the scooter down fast enough- the wheels are too small- no suspension- not designed for the bigger and heavier kidsNote that it's a very basic scooter offered at a very affordable price, so don't expect to use this for doing tricks. The fact that it folds is all ready a good enough reason not to take this to a skate park. Since it has no suspension, I would avoid riding this on bumpy and/or uneven grounds. Even as a small adult (4'11", 105 lbs), I feel as if I'm about to bounce right off the scooter whenever I'm going down a bumpy road or sidewalk. Also take note of the weight limit. It would definitely benefit from a suspension system and slightly bigger wheels, but at the same time, remember that this is a classic kid's toy. If you're an advanced scooter rider, and adult, or you're anywhere close to the weight limit or above it, I would recommend getting a different model that has a higher weight capacity, bigger wheels, and a suspension systemRazor Pro Model Scooter. My bf, who is 6' and about 180 lbs, can barely move my scooter. If you walk around a college campus and see a rather "pudgy" college kid riding one of these, you'll notice it's all ready squeaking for help.Overall, I recommend this specific model for kids and small adults for basic use. If you're an average sized adult, go for thePro.


