1354233600
3.0
review/summary: Quick way to field clean, bad designreview/text: I have used BoreSnakes and similar on various calibers for many years. The idea is great but Hoppe's execution could be better.The pros: quick...washableinexpensivesmall package "easy to store in range bag".can be used as an emergency tourniquet in a pinch {ok that's a stretch but hey innovation is a necessity}Cons:easy to break pull cordsame model doesn't necessarily mean it will fit (223/5.56) "perhaps quality control issue"easily jams in barrel.difficult if not impossible to clean chamber to muzzle in AR platform, meaning your dragging particulate in to your receiver.As I said I have used and still use the BS in 223/5.56 and 308/7.62 as well as 45 & 9. The snakes for handguns and non AR platforms work well and with little issue. The caveat is the AR platforms, if your running a match grade barrel in 223 id recommend that you not use this BS. The lack of tactile feedback could leave your rifling damaged or a BS stuck in your barrel. Not to say the BS would cause the damage directly but more likely a large piece of particulate etc.. getting stuck in the snake and being raked down the barrel. For your average sportsman or tacticool user a BoreSnake is not a bad investment. They are really good at cleaning out the gunk left in your barrel when shooting steal case ammo like Wolf or Tula.My biggest complaint is the breaking of the pull cord. I am a moderate shooter, approximately 300 rds a month on my 5.56's and 200-300 rds on my 308 so I might use a snake 2-3 times a month. They average about 7-8 cleanings before the cord breaks.I have read a lot of reviews where users swear by these, I would as well for a quick clean however over time they just don't last making the bang for your buck rather underwhelming. I do want to point out that I have used snake's on my 45's and 9mm well over 100 times, I have never had to replace either and I believe I have at least 100 more cleanings before I would even consider the need to replace. Your mileage may and probably will very.Austin{always watching your six}


