1359590400
3.0
review/summary: Decent gloves.review/text: I'd like to first point out that I've put these to work in a situation that they probably weren't designed for, but hey. It's still use.These are obviously intended to be a shooting/tactical type glove. I do not train/be in tactical situations where this glove would sport its intended purpose. I used this glove HARD for heavy duty trail work with both hand and power tools. This will be a review based on what a general glove should be, and how I think these held up to those standards.First flaw I found was actually on the product listing - why is there no medium size listed? At first I thought they didn't make the size but as the gloves came I saw &#34;M&#34; clearly printed on the list of available sizes. These were a little bit too big for me and contributed to the wear because of that.Gloves came with very good construction. All stitching was very tough and didn't seem likely to break any time soon. The synthetic leather on the palm was also very soft and comfortable while retaining a good level of dexterity. The grip &#34;pads&#34; on the palm ensured a non-slip grip on anything you would put your hands on. So far, so good.Turn the glove over and you will find a pretty thick neoprene back. This was hot. Too hot for a work glove, and definitely for a tactical glove. Of course, I'm in SoCal so I may have a biased opinion, and these are marketed as &#34;all-weather&#34; anyway. The velcro closure could have been designed a little bit better, with a larger contact surface area and a straight piece of rectangular velcro instead of stupid ball shaped designs that don't really do anything.I'm willing to forgive the hotness of the neoprene back, since the rest of the glove looked so promising. The only other flaw I found was the fingertips were square shaped instead of rounded like and actual finger. I think the gloves would have fit substantially better with rounded tips.I, being the excited person who just got a new thing to try out, slapped on these babies to try them out on the trail.I have to say, not bad for the first couple of days. There was practically no damage to any part of the glove, and it helped me deal with impacts and absorbed some of the force. I was also able to securely grip tools and use them to maximum effectiveness. The gloves also shed moisture and dirt pretty well, keeping them both out while not reducing them to useless balls of sludge on your hands.Unfortunately, the palm of the gloves was made too thin. After about 3 weeks of trail work, 2-3 hours a day 5 days a week, the synthetic leather tore off and exposed the fabric mesh underneath, which was slippery and basically nonexistent as protection. Another week of trail work and the palms were done. I had a useless pair of gloves where they did nothing to protect my hands and were hot while wearing them too. One of the fingers also split open, but that may be from branches or some other sharp object cutting the stitching open. I am not sure what caused the split finger.Overall, a good glove for cooler climates with good dexterity and feel. Strategic grip pad placement and a pretty decent fit make it for a likely valuable tactical glove. However, should you choose to do some work with these gloves and are looking to protect your hands better, look elsewhere. These are too thin to be used for anything that involves heavy wear and tear.


