1357171200
4.0
review/summary: Pretty Goodreview/text: I base this review in comparison to an earlier "pedometer" I had; my son did not want his iPod Nano (3rd Gen.?) anymore, a few years ago so he actually gave it to me (sweet - it was even one that he had gotten with his own money!). Anyhow, when this occurred, I checked through it and found there was a pedometer app on there. And this became my addiction; just had to have this pedometer everywhere I went and strive to get to 15,000 steps a day. I could just take my little charger/usb connector and connect it to the computer each night to charge and also download all of my steps to Nike.com. Loved it. Kept my motivation up to walk or run or just get those steps up every day. This was pretty much all I used the Nano for except to get good music on long car drives - lol!! (You can also get radio stations on it - very usefull little gadget.)Regardless, a few weeks ago it just died. Screen blank, no matter where I plugged it in, it would not work. I tried to reset it as I have many times before. No joy. I was not happy. In the few days I was not wearing it, I saw my motivation to walk or use my stairmaster drop. And, to top it off, I missed it and felt naked without it - lol!So I opted to search Amazon and found this one.This is a cool product, a little bulky for me; I am used to a thin counter that I'd just slip in my pocket each day. But I have both put this in my pocket and used the handy-dandy clip thing and that works. Do not want to put it in my purse because I do not have that with me at all times and I want to count my steps throughout the day, not just when I am exercising. I, again, saw my motivation to get moving step up and this is the important thing anyhow.On the software, I was expecting to be able to plug it into the computer and it would automatically download the software. This is not the case so I actually haven't taken the time to download it but it was not like the iPod Nano, where you plug it in and are instantly asked to connect to Nike.com, etc. so you can track our progress and steps but you actually have to find a website, etc. I haven't had the time to do so as of yet.Anyhow, it is good for motivating one to get moving, this is what I need.I do recommend it for anyone who does not always have an iPod Nano - LOL!Update (17 Jan 2013):Do not use this when you are shoveling snow!!! Had major snow-fall and was out shovelling and made the mistake of not putting this in a pocket; used the clip instead. When I was done, I noticed it was GONE. Went to search for it. No such luck in a foot and a half of snow.Anyhow, should have known better. Just be careful with the clip.Getting a less-expensive and smaller one now so I can put it comfortably in my pocket. Being relatively thin, when I wore this on the clip, or in my pocket, it stuck out... lol! Maybe it's for the better that I lost it.


