1353110400
4.0
review/summary: Expensive - Only for those who are truly serious about exercisereview/text: I bought this product because I needed to get in shape for an Olympic length triathlon, and had just a little less than 90 days.Usually in any workout video, the lead person irritates me with how they talk, and because they make it look so easy. Tony reminds you that its hard even for him and the people with him, and that they're actually sweating. As an ex-Division 1 college athlete, I can tell you these workouts are really hard. These workouts are not for the average citizen, they are for people who have decided that nothing will stop them from getting in shape. I could not complete every exercise on most of the workouts, though the improvement I made week to week was obvious. To be fair, I wasn't in the same shape I was when I rowed every day, but I was still in better shape than most everyone else I knew.Pros:P90X comes with a nutrition guide, which not only tells you what to eat, but how much, and why you're eating it. In addition, it contains a cooking guide, and many of the meals looked delicious (though I never got around to making most of them).Tony Horton is very good at motivating you, and the stories he tells about his fellow workout buddies is quite inspiring.Although by the time the triathlon came around, I'd only done P90X about 50% of the time (I wasn't as dedicated as I should have been) and I was only about 70 days in, I was able to get a better time on the Triathlon than I had the previous year.The option to get weights or bands to workout is great, especially for those on a budget.While I probably will not do the planned P90X program again (see con section), some of the programs, like Yoga, are truly excellent and I will probably keep doing them for years.The exercises are planned in such a weigh to prevent overexercising, and the cardio exercises are perfect for reducing soreness at just the right times.Cons:P90X is very difficult. Without a social support group (someone to exercise with, or someone(s) who is doing it simultaneously that you can tell each other you completed your workout for the day), or a titanium will, I can say with almost complete certainty that you will not do P90X every day, and probably won't finish the program. I know I didn't.Tony does a few things that irritate me, for instance he'll mention things you should not eat, which as any psychologist will tell you, is a terrible way to keep people from doing something.While bands are an option for the exercises, often the program will be halfway through an exercise before they explain how to do the bands part, and the bands are much more difficult to use correctly (though allow for much greater variability in difficulty - which is another thing that makes them harder to use). This kept me from enjoying many of the exercises.Some of the programs, such as plyometrics, require a lot of space. To see if you have enough room, take 4-5 large leaps from one side of your exercise room to the other. If you run into anything, you will have difficulty doing some of the exercises. I just turned around a lot more than they said to, but I have no idea if that effects the exercise.While the nutrition plan seemed overall to be sound, the beginning part is a 'weight loss' section, and while following it I would not have enough energy to finish the workouts, so I would suggest skipping that sectionOverall:I would strongly suggest this to anyone who is deadly serious about getting into the best shape of their lives. Even if you can barely complete the minimum exercises (found on their website) you will be able to see amazing improvement week to week. I would suggest getting real weights instead of bands, though bands work great for some people. You need to prepare for being sore, for spending 1-2 hours a day exercising, for probably doubling your caloric intake (and quadrupling the amount you spend on food - good quality food is expensive), and most importantly, you need to prepare to be completely ok with skipping some of the exercises until you're strong enough to do them. If you can't do those, or if you think "getting in shape might be fun" instead of being absolutely certain, don't get this.


