1354492800
5.0
review/summary: sweetnessreview/text: this is my first automatic watch. yes, it is a rolex submariner "homage." if you want a nearly identical quality watch for 1/1000th of the price, this is the watch for you. accurate timekeeping in an automatic movement, simple design, bulletproof build. it feels great on the wrist - good weight and size.this watch is great as a 'sports watch' and it looks just as good with a suit on - i have worn it now for about five days, and i have been honestly getting compliments from all kinds of people. i had a job interview two days ago, and i saw the interviewer kept looking over at my wrist. haha kind of a cool feeling. like i said, its not a rolex, but i dont have 6K to drop on a piece of jewelry (yet).anyway, its nearly perfect. so far its about 7 seconds or so fast, per day, but I've been reading about this movement (the new, seiko movement by the way) taking about 2 months to settle in. i'll probably take it to a watch guy somewhere by then to have it regulated (there is a small adjustment thingie that can be seen inside of the crystal backing). until then, i'll just adjust the time once a week by a minute. you're not going to get atomic-clock accuracy with any automatic watch, and this one really is the best bang for the buck. i'm thinking about buying one for my best friend, he likes mine so much. anyway, you should pick one of these up - you wont regret it (unless you're some kind of weird watch snob, but even then you're probably a collector of some sort and can appreciate the quality for the price).update:i'm about a month into using this watch *every day*. so far, so good. it still runs a little bit fast. when i get around to having it regulated, i will, but still it's only like a minute fast per week, so i'm not overly concerned. no scratches on the body or face. bezel is still crisp, but moves without too much force. i have to say, i really enjoy this watch. the only time that i take it off is if i'm going jogging (i'll wear a heart rate monitor watch). also i took it off for a few hours when i went snowboarding. it's not really a watch that you'll want to wear if you're going to risk any kind of impact to your wrists, not that it couldn't handle it, its just that your wrists will want to fall off instead. so far so good... i'll provide another update in about a month or so or whenever i remember.


