1350777600
5.0
review/summary: Quick, Easy and Just Right!review/text: The packages have starters to make it easy to tear open one or both pouches. I like that I can open only one if I don't need two. It takes a little bit to warm up, but then it's toasty and keeps me warm for many hours. At first, I would only use them if I knew I'd be outside for a long period of time, but now, I find them useful indoors too. I usually start by opening one or two to warm up my robe pockets on a cold morning, then I put them in my coat when I take a walk on a cold day, then I'll transfer them to a sweater pocket and eventually tuck them into a blanket I keep outside for a neighborhood cat who looks cold when the sun isn't shining. The heat lasts for a long time, and I've found it more comfortable and economical than increasing the heat for the whole house.Update 11/25/2012After reading other reviews, I am updating mine to share that the "HOT" part of "Hot Hands" seems a bit misleading. Each person has their idea of what "hot" means. These are more hand WARMERs. They feel warmer tucked into a pocket than in my gloves, and warmer still when I fold one into my scarf, around my collar. The longer I have these in my pockets, as the hours pass, the warmer they get. Rarely would I say they feel "hot". I too have found that a cup that's just had boiling water poured into it is feels hotter, but I can't tuck that into my clothing, plus in short order a cup of hot water cools down.In this last box of warmers, which have an expiration date of 02/15/2012, I did have a couple of duds that barely got warm; and I got a couple that got unusually hot - which is likely what most people are expecting and why there is a burn hazard warning. That warning may lead us to believe that these will ALL get "hot" but from my recent experience with the HAND WARMERS, that's rarely the case. Typically, they get very "warm" in my opinion, which works very well for me.After reading more of the complains about this product, I decided to order the hand and body size. I'm curious to see if the size of the bag influences the amount of heat produced. I am still happy with the hand warmers for my use. When I am outside, I am mobile, I don't sit so my experience may be different than most.


