1360540800
5.0
review/summary: AMAZING for workreview/text: We had an older pair of these before they went to the glossy black casing, and have used those for the better part of the last decade or more, and they worked amazing. The reason for getting new ones is heck- after over a decade and just starting to have the surround padding for the ears get a little hard and torn, they are a steal of a deal for the price you pay to protect your hearing.The work we do:Table Saws, Band Saws, Power Sanders, Planers, Leaf Blowers, Chainsaws, Rifle and Shotgun Shooting (more fun, less work...), Lawn Mowers, Jack Hammers. Basically anything construction- these have been used for- even the occasional night when my dad with poor hearing cranks up the tv to hurting volumes to my sensitive hearing- I have nothing to say but good things.They work amazing at deadening outside sound, and for me- I can still hear people talking but the really noise-damaging sounds are drastically cut down. If you want to listen to music with these, I highly recommend a pair of sound-isolating ear buds, and NOT the iPhone/iPod standard ones. When I do this- my volume is nearly kept at the minimum volume for most tasks, and sometimes even that was too loud- so the good news being, you can hear music with a GOOD set of speakers, keep the volume low to avoid hearing loss, and at the same time- get the comfort and added protection from outside sounds with these. The in-ear work better than around the ear, however.I have also used these with (and they recommend) thin-sided glasses, safety or otherwise (I use some Oakley Antix) and (especially on the new pair with newer padding around the ears) they still cut out exterior sound to a really good degree, nearly the same as without the exterior interference. Highly recommended so long as you don't mind keeping a hat off. If you want one- get an oversize hat or a cheapie you don't mind getting bent a little out of shape from the over-head hearing as the wires stick out about a quarter to half-inch from your skin.Also- I have a HUGE head (translation: I wear extra large hats and not all one-size fits all hats fit me.. I think I was 7.25-7.5 on a fitted cap when I played little league baseball...) and very large ears (maybe 3" top to bottom..? they run in the family, oh well..) but these still have expansion space to fit on even larger heads and my ears fit inside the cups PERFECTLY. Unless you are part of the 1% of the population with a freakishly large (no offense) head or ears, they should work perfectly for you, so hopefully that answers that question if you're wondering how they work for larger heads.The only disadvantage I see is with shooting sports, particularly rifle and shotgun. They stick out enough to the point that if you sight down the barrel- they interfere and get pushed out of the way by the rifle/shotgun stock. Would def. recommend a slim set. I went with some Howard Leight ones that work pretty well on battery-operated silencing, however they are not so great if you sweat. These are basically waterproof and don't get sticky like my Howard Leight ones when dry and are easy to maintain. Both are really great quality but bang for the buck... these can not be beat. And now I sound like I work for em. Wish I did- I need to pay off some debt, haha..


