1347753600
3.0
review/summary: Set your walking goals then beat 'emreview/text: My daughter has one of these and loves it. Since I'm big into hiking/Geocaching she thought it would be great for me too, so she brought one for me. I've never used a pedometers but I like the concept. I've had the unit for a week now and have some initial comments.Most of the instruction manual is simple and clearly written but there is at least one poorly identified item. "USING THE EVENT FUNCTION" with the "MODE/EVENT BUTTON". The MODE is clearly defined in the preceding item, but what is considered an "EVENT"? I know that an "Event can be recorded once per hour" and "The unit does not display previous event data", but, I have no idea of what is being depicted (i.e., "-01-").The unit is capable of storing 41 days of data and that data can be downloaded to either MS Healthnet or Omron proprietary software. I chose the Omron software which allows displaying data as numeric and graphed and can be displayed by day, week, or month (I use Windows 7).Depending on how you use the unit can determine your satisfaction. For my lunch time 30 minute strolls, the unit seems to work quite well (though I'm not yet convinced it reads mileage correctly). Three times a week I ride a upright stationary bike for 30 minutes at a fast pace. It seems to be recording the steps correctly as "aerobatic" but the mileage seems way off (i.e., 1.6 miles). I've tried it placed in my pocket and in my sock with near the same results.Because of one of my primary uses, somewhat of a disappointment is how it reads "Aerobatic" steps. You have to walk at more than 60 steps per minute (no problem there) AND it has to be for 10 minutes continuously (this is my problem). Two of my favorite hobbies are hiking and Geocaching. For example, this last weekend I went hiking along a "Geotrail" (where there is a series of Geocaches placed along a trail). Generally, the Geocaches of a series are placed from .1 to .14 miles apart and I can make that distance in well under 10 minutes. So, 2.5 miles into my hike I checked the data and it showed a big fat ZERO for aerobatic steps. Though I was moving rather fast and steady, I stopped to search for each cache which would cancel out any progress towards aerobatic steps accumulated.A true disappointment was the belt clip. The first day I wore it, it fell off or almost fell off multiple times, nearly losing it. On a lunch stroll, I first clipped it to my belt... the clip depth is about half of a normal men's belt width, and it simply popped off about 5 minutes into the walk. I then tried clipping it to edge of my pants, with the same results. I then clipped it to the edge of my pants pocket... again, I almost lost it. I've removed the clip and simply put it inside my pants pocket. The bulge is not too bad but I would prefer an efficient clip.I really like the concept. It gives you a "number to beat" encouraging you to walk just a bit further each time. As noted earlier, I don't have any prior experience with a pedometer, therefore I can't compare it to other units which may well outperform the Omron. That said, I'm content with what this unit does.RATING NOTE: If a product does what I purchased it to do vs. what I paid, then it's a solid 3 Stars. If goes BEYOND my expectations in performance or price I'll give it 4 Stars, as compared to if it is lacking it would receive 2 Stars. Anything well ABOVE or BELOW those would get 1 or 5.


