1344988800
5.0
review/summary: GREAT INVICTA WATCH!!review/text: I received the 8926OB 5 days ago and it's been working great since then. I already own the Invicta 1543 Reserve but wanted a smaller, lighter watch for my everyday watch so I chose the 8926OB.Let me backup and start from the beginning. From order to arrival, it only took 3 days to receive the watch-probably because I'm in a metro area with an Amazon warehouse nearby. However, there was no paperwork included in the shipment box to say what this shipment contained or any return info paperwork. I was alittle surprised at that. Usually Amazon orders are quite complete on the paperwork end. Anyway, the watch was packed properly with lots of packing material and came thru flawlessly. Upon opening the yellow display box I was impressed with the attention to detail. The band was completely wrapped in heavy, clear plastic to protect it from scratches and for shipping. There was even a small strip of paper inserted through the clasp for the same reasons. The front and rear crystals were also covered with clear, plastic circles for protection, too. Very impressive packaging for a watch that cost less than $100! After unwrapping the watch completely, I really checked it out carefully. The bezel turned tightly and evenly and the ratcheting clicks sounded impressive-not tinny or uneven. The bezel printing is fine, too. And the bezel top marker lines up perfectly at the twelve-o'clock position also! In other reviews I've read about the cyclops being misaligned-but not on mine! So far so good. On the face, the printing is perfect and the Trinite markers are all where they should be with no loose ones floating around. The hands work perfectly ,too. They seem to be applied properly and not loose either. For the movement, I lucked-out and got the newer NH35A.SII movement with 24 jewels. This movement is hackable and can be manually wound! That's fantastic for a watch in this price range! The accuracy seems to be right on, too. So far it's the same time as my quartz watches! I'm not too crazy about the see-thru back, but that's the way it is these days. People like to see the inner workings of watches now. Look how popular the skeletonized see-thru watches have become. I guess that's more important to them then being able to see what time it is easily. Anyway, moving on, the crown is screw-down but care must be taken to make sure you don't cross-thread it when screwing it back down. The threads are fine, so take your time and do it gently. The stem is straight and seems substantial and the pull-out click positions activate easily. For the bracelet, I'm surprised at how tightly it fits against the watch case. That's a good thing-no large or uneven gaps there. The bracelet overall seems alittle on the flimsy side but on par for a watch in this price range. It adjusts easily and uses the push-out pins to remove links. I'm not a fan of the highly polished center links or the super shiny watch case sides either. They will probably scratch and show fingerprints easily. As far as the water resistance goes, I haven't been swimming with it yet but did submerge the watch in a glass of water for over an hour with no leakage detected at all. So to wrap this up, I give the Invicta 8926OB that I have, 5 stars overall. It's a great watch for the price and I'm really pleased with it and recommend it highly!! Hopefully, the one you get will be as good as mine!


