1353024000
5.0
review/summary: Saved me on two different occasions!review/text: I have been using these blankets for over a decade, they go with me in my car, every survival and first aid kit, and of course whenever I go backpacking/hiking/climbing.They have so many valid uses like :An emergency shelter or overhead canopy to keep rain and some wind out. If you want to use it as a flap or tie point: then you'll want to put a small smooth pebble or something about that size a few inches in from an edge/corner, and fold the blanket over and tie around the base of it. If you want to poke through it for a stake down or line run through point, you'll probably want to put some tape around it (probably before you poke through it) to reinforce it. It's effortless for a puncture to continue spreading given any force against it on this material. You can also use it as a sort of heat reflector from a fire thats close to a lean-to style shelter, using it as the roof/backing.A ground tarp or footprint. Works good if you have an open bottom or netted bottom tent. Or just a really thin tent/bivvy base that you want to give a little extra protection to. Yes this isn't really puncture resistant, you need to clear off the ground carefully first - as you should be anyways. Also works decently as a dry/clean ground tarp to put equipment or shoes on.A surprisingly warm blanket in a pinch. They say it works best if you get naked and wrap yourself as tightly as possible in this. I think if you have thin/tight fitting clothing you'll be alright to leave it on, but it probably isn't as useful with thick coats/layers. It works by reflecting body heat. I've relied on these blankets twice for this reason so far, and both times I was pleasantly surprised. One time I was about 2miles from my tentsite getting water, when a freak thunderstorm hit, with shorts and no shirt, by the time I had ran back to my tent in the cooled temperature I was shivering uncontrollably. With only this blanket and a single hand warmer I went inside my bivvy and curled up inside of it for about 30min or so, and fairly certain it saved me from hypothermia. The second time it had gotten a lot colder then I expected on a warm day (dropped around freezing). All I had on was summer clothes + rain shell, I curled up next to a small fire with this wrapped around me tightly, and slept for a good 4hrs no problem. Note though small embers/sparks will burn holes through it really easily, but would not catch fire from it.It is a must have for any house/car/trip/adventure. The 10 pack on amazon is one of the best prices around for this product. I go through several a season they get used so often. These are 84" x 52", reflects 90% of your body heat, and weighs 38.5 grams roughly (without the packaging they come in - a little ziplock bag).


