1356912000
5.0
review/summary: Works great! Here are tips from Hoppes.review/text: I got this for my Ruger 10/22 and decided to use the Boresnake after firing about 300 (brass plated Federal Champion) rounds because there is no way to put a cleaning rod into the barrel's breech. I didn't want to put the cleaning rod with a bore brush into the end of the barrel because I don't want to take a chance of bending it or the rod and maybe screwing up the rifling.I read the instructions that came with it and they were pretty basic so I called up Hoppe's and asked if there was any more to it than what it said on the package. I was told to put a "few drops of [what else] Hoppe's bore cleaner just below where the pull cord is attached to the wider portion, a "few drops" of oil at the end and run it through a couple times. He also mentioned I could wash it in the washing machine if I put it in a mesh bag so the bristles wouldn't tear up the other clothes. I don't generally put oily things from gun cleaning into the washing machine so I suppose I'll wash it by hand.I didn't have an eye dropper so I'm sure I put more than a few drops of bore cleaner and oil on it, but it wasn't soaked or dripping wet. I ran it through the barrel two times. My eyes aren't as good as they used to be so looking in the bore using a bore light wouldn't have done me much good to see if it was still dirty or not. To check to see how well it worked, I ran a clean dry patch into the end of the barrel through to the breech a couple of times. The only thing on the patch was a little bit of oil.Since I had the thing out I decided to use it to clean my new Ruger Mark III 22/45 that I had shot up a mixed bunch of brass plated and lead rounds, about 400 in all. I used the Boresnake exactly as I used it with the 10/22 but it took four passes with it to get it clean, probably because of the lead bullets. I put a dry, clean patch on a cleaning rod (from the barrel's breech) and got the same result, a clean patch with a little oil on it.As of now, I'm very pleased with the Boresnake and would recommend it. I plan on getting Boresnakes for my .40 S&W; and .45. pistols.


