1344816000
5.0
review/summary: A workout which delivers results, believe the hype.review/text: Finally an exercise program that works and delivers result. P90X is comprised of 12 DVDs and these are it:DVD #1 - Chest & Back Chest This section is mostly about pushups and pull ups. I do the pushups the traditional way, and sometimes on my knees and also using the handles if you have wrist issues. For the pull-ups, I started using red bands but have moved to Purple ones as they provide a resistance of at least 20 pounds.DVD #2 - PlyometricsThis was the only workout that made me sweat a lot and I think it will make most of us too. It is a very intense and grueling workout consisting of jumping and squatting and is designed to make your heart and lungs work. This is a high impact workout but Tony teaches you how to do it correctly without the impact, the key in his words is to think like a cat, landing softly on your toes. You need a lot of room to do this work out as there is a fair amount of jumping around. I think this is the workout that will possibly give me most gains in stamina as a result of the intensity.DVD #3 - Shoulders & Arms This workout covers the biceps, the triceps and shoulders. These exercises work in two minute bursts for the targeted areas, the entire workout is about 5 3 set sections. This workout is intense and works the different muscle groups.DVD #4 - Yoga X is the longest workout in the series. It clocks at 90 minutes, at the beginning Tony tells us that we should forget all the things that have to be done in our life and focus on the workout to have a ride that we will never forget, and he is right. I love this workout even though some poses are extremely hard for me such as the Crane, Plow and the Wheel. The first 45 minutes are poses which are vinyasas and are mostly sun salutations and warrior poses along with twists. The last 45 minutes are balance along with abdominal poses. This is a yoga workout which will make you sweat even in the dead of winter. One might think that 90 minutes is a pretty long time but times goes by quickly and you will feel refreshed. The music is superb and well suited to the entire duration.DVD # 5 - Legs & Back, this DVD works the legs and the back. I did not enjoy the leg portion of the workout but I liked the back portion a lot. A lot of pull ups with the resistance bands.DVD #6 - Kenpo XKenpoX Tony tells us that this is the most fun of all workouts. It is 45 minutes of kickboxing and throwing punches. I did not enjoy this workout one bit. I still do it but only half heartedly. a message board post at beach body suggests that 3 pound weights can add to the intensity. Still it could be a fun workout for many. However it is one of the easier in terms of intensity.DVD #7 - X Stretch Prior to working out, I used to think that stretching is a waste of time. Stretch proves to the contradictory, the majority of the workouts that ou do are variations of what you have done in Kenpo and Yoga but these are easier versions which do not make you feel spent. If the stretching in this exercise video is done correctly you can have more benefits and a calmer state of mind. One tends to rush through these routines because all the other exercises in other dvds are so intense. Don't miss doing this one as I know most people skip this one.DVD #8 - Core Synergistics works out your entire core so that it makes your entire body stronger. I hate working out the abs but this is fun. There are many exercises but you don't repeat any of them.DVD #9 - Chest, Shoulders & Triceps This is one of the most hardest workouts because you will be using the above mentioned muscles repeatedly. The heaviest weight is not always desired because some of the movements are hard,so focus on quality over quantity. You will also be doing a lot of pushups, some of them with one hand. There are substitute moves with the resistance bands as well.DVD #10 - Back & Biceps: Works out the back and biceps. A Lot of bicep moves with pullups and the lawnmower. Overall, a good workout which delivers results.DVD #11 - Cardio X is basically a combination workout between 4 other P90X workouts, Core Synergistics, Kenpo X, Yoga X and Plyometrics. It ranges from easy to hard in parts.DVD #12 - Ab Ripper X This is the worst of all the workouts. It is extremely hard and at some point I could barely move but it works. I do this workout separately that is not immediately following a workout, as they recommend. I am too tired to go at it.P90X is by no means easy but a lot has been speculated by many people that the hard part is stressed to the point of over exaggerations. I am no jock, but these workouts are doable. I did the P90 to get ready for P90x, so there is a level of preparation which goes into this workout. Most workouts are long at about 60 minutes but I think they are of the right length because think of the time you would save on the These exercises have to be done 6 days a week, so the length and the frequency detracts most people from starting this program.This is not a program which will give you a lot of muscles but a program which will make you more fit and athletic. having said that, people have different bodies and commitments, so while it may not give everyone a ripped body like Tony. I think, it is safe to say, that almost all of them will experience a surge in energy, toning and gain in flexibility and stamina.Tony Horton is a superb coach; he is funny, motivating and full of pointers for making modifications.The exercise can done in three ways, classic, lean and doubles. The classic mode is fine for me, however I do aspire to eventually be able to do the doubles but time is always a factor for me.I have not followed the diet, had I done this I would have made more gains but its not possible for me to follow the Beach Body Diet. However, I saw gains through eating sensibly, cutting down on carbs, fats, eating more protein,less fat and sugar, something which we should be doing anyway.Tony hawks the recovery drinks a lot but I did not buy those those are expensive instead I drink a soy protein shake at the end of each workEquipment: Some basic equipment is needed but the program is about pull up bars ( I used resistance bands- red and purple) and push up bars ( I did not use any but if you have wrist problems you may want to ) The purple resistance bands give you a resistance of about 20 lbs.Yoga requires a mat and blocks if you have flexibility issues ( again I never used any of these)I used a pair of dumbbells of different weights.Enjoy....


