1345420800
4.0
review/summary: Good choice for the occassional weekend warriorreview/text: I have a 1999 Honda Accord, with no spoiler, and this bike rack worked great. I used the "modified" bottom strap connection technique (connected bottom strap to the bottom of my trunk door instead of under the rear bumper) and found this to be more stable. The instructions for how to do this are included in the product packaging. I've driven about 1500+ total miles with two mountain bikes on the rack without any problems. Longest single day drive was about 500 miles and included highway speeds up to 70 mph, road construction sites and dirt roads. So far, I have never had to stop to retighten straps or make any adjustments to the bikes or the bike rack. There has been no damage to the bikes, and aside from a small scratch on rear license plate there has been no damage to the car. Here are the tricks I learned from reading the product reviews:1) Use folder pieces of duck tape to prevent the attachment hooks from scratching the car paint.2) Tie-off any excess hook strap after tightening to prevent straps from loosening while on the road.3) Remove pedals of the inner-most bike before putting it on the rack (prevents bike from scratching the trunk paint and provides more room for the second bike).4) Duck-tape a piece of padding (I used an old wash rag) to the cross bar of the rack (where the bottom strap is normally attached) to prevent the inner-most bike frame from rubbing against the rack.5) Put second bike on the rack in reverse to the first.6) Bungee-cord the front tires of each bike to their respective bike frames (to keep the bike tires from spinning and keep handle bars straight).7) Bungee-cord the two bike frames together with a wash rag in-between to keep the bikes from shifting/rubbing against each other.Granted, this may seem like a lot of extra work, but what do you expect if you only spend $34 for a bike rack???If you want something that is fast, easy and secure you'll need to spend $150+ and get a trailer hitch bike rack. I have one of these for my truck and it works great. Easy on, easy off and very secure. If you are an occasional weekend warrior who doesn't have a tow hitch and you don't want to spend a lot of money, this rack will probably meet your needs. Just be prepared to spend 15-20 minutes each time you are getting ready to go somewhere to ride.


