1357344000
1.0
review/summary: I don't get it. These bottles always spill.review/text: I honestly don't get it. I was told CamelBak (BPA-Free) were so great. I bought 6 of them. Two 32oz with the straw attached flip top; two somewhere in the 20-30 oz range with the same flip cap straw design; and two 16 oz with a plain and simple cap that must be unscrewed in order to drink. Do you know what? THEY ALL LEAK. The shocker comes with the 16oz plain screw on cap. CamelBak makes that loop handle attach to all the lids I have and that's where they've been leaking from since day 1. That's right, they all leak, even the plain cap, from the middle of the caps.When I put them in my insulated lunch bag, I have to strategically make a support system out of my lunch and snacks to keep the CamelBak lid facing up. Sometimes when I come home, I put down my lunch bag forgetting I had to use a Camelbak that day and in the morning I open up the bag which has flooded thanks to that Camelbak. If you are wondering, I only use them when all the Nalgene bottles are in the dishwasher waiting to get washed.I also have come to dislike their gradual thinning from base to lip. I like to either put ice cubes in my water bottles or sometimes pour water half way up and put it in the freezer. In both cases, when all has turned to ice (overnight) I fill the rest with water and take it out to the car and put it in my cup holder. The water condensation on the outside of the bottle within the first 10 minutes of driving makes the surface of the bottle so slippery that I cannot get a strong enough grip on it to get it out of the cup holder to take a drink. This is most notable on the largest 2, but the next larger 2 do it as well.I stick with Nalgene now. I love their bottles and their accessories. I have five 32 oz Nalgene (BPA-Free) for years now. A couple of years ago on only one of the lids, the loop from the lid to it's anchor around the bottle snapped. It cost me less than $1.50 to get a replacement from Nalgene. I'm off to get a 2 smaller ones. I buy them and any accessories straight from Nalgene. They should know how to make great bottles, they've been making all the glassware and other types of materials that goes into labs for a long, long, time.I honestly just don't get what people see in this product at all. I'm truly stunned by that rating. If I had one leak, that's an obvious DOA (dead on arrival), but 6, sorry, there's a real issue there.


