1348012800
5.0
review/summary: Hot means hot. Finally.review/text: I like my coffee/whathaveyou HOT. Somewhat warm coffee is not drinkable coffee. This thermos delivers.Like many others, I have had a bevy of previous thermal carafes, even going so far as to keep an electric one for the car. I hated all of them. My closest was a Thermos Sipp, which was mediocre at best and cost as much as this cup. By the time I would leave the driveway, my beverage would merely be warm. It would stay warm until noon, but it lost the heat that makes coffee enjoyable to me. My wife cries foul that I drink liquid fire, so I while I haven't measured specific temperatures, when I say hot in this review, I mean it.Updated timeframe for heat retention. I filled the cup with hot water from the tap and sealed the cup for ~8 minutes. I have a Zojirushi drip coffee maker with thermal carafe, not a boiler-plate.- After 90 minutes I opened the cup and when I took a sip, it scalded my tongue.- From the 2-4 hour mark I nursed it and it remained pleasantly hot the entire time. Not uncomfortably so, a great drinking temp that didn't take away from taste despite repeated opening/closing. Never had a thermos last this long.- At hour 6 I came back and gave it a taste test expecting to pour the rest down the drain. It was still very drinkable and the temperature was still hot, though obviously cooled.- I missed hour 8 and am now on hour 9. It is definitely warm and no longer hot, but there is about 1/3 cup left and I could drink the rest without issue.Overall, very impressive. Usually by 10AM I can't stand my coffee anymore and end up wasting a criminal amount. It's now 3:30 PM and as mentioned, could finish the cup without issue. This was great. Granted it was indoors/in the car and not out in the cold all day, but it far surpasses anything I've used previously.The build quality seems sturdy. The lid and spring action are great and easy to use one-handed and are easy to clean. The spout design makes for easy drinking or pouring. I worried a bit about sloshing when drinking in the car just by looking at it, but it's not an issue.I shook it, tipped it, knocked it, hit it, banged it with the cap on and there were no leaks or signs of ill effect. The spout does get a tad unsightly due to its design on the inside, but at this point I'm just looking for something negative to say. Who is looking at the inside of your coffee cup? No one would see it and the functionality of the design far surpasses this trivial observation.The best products are those that live up to their reputation and/or defy your expectations. I'm proud to be a hater, but I am very impressed with this cup and would heartily recommend it.


