1356566400
4.0
review/summary: I'm sure it's great, I just wasn't ready.review/text: I know there are hundreds of people out there who swear by P90X and the other Beach Body products, but it would be wise for anyone who is looking to spend the cash on these things to do a thorough self assessment before doing so. I bought the set thinking that I would devote whatever it takes to burn though the P90X regimen and diet program, but the reality was that I was nowhere near ready to accomplish this undertaking. P90X is for people who are moderately fit, or already exercise regularly but want to ratchet up their regimen to get extreme results quickly. I was none of the above.As a self proclaimed couch potato reminiscing about the days of my fitness gone by, the first two routines left me hurting for a week or more. Also, I hadn't realized how extensive the diet plan was before getting into this. I had done other diet plans in the past, but the portions in the program are kind of huge, and the food itself will strain the budget of many. There are alternative foods listed, and supplements aren't as vital as the program suggests, but be prepared to rack up some pretty serious grocery bills.The third consideration before starting P90X is whether or not you have the space required to do the exercise routines. Many of the workouts require ample space to move around or jump and stretch. If you have neighbors that live below, they might not appreciate the jumping depending on the time of day you exercise. Many of the exercises will require additional equipment such as a chin up bar as well. They can be purchased in most department stores cheaply, but you get what you pay for. I went through two models that claimed they would support 250+ pounds, but it simply wasn't true. I was 195 or less when I started, and the bolts broke on two different bars before I found one that worked.Finally, it really is important to be sure that you are physically capable of doing P90X in the first place. There is a self assessment section in the workout guide, but you should really be examined by a doctor before undertaking any strenuous exercise program. Too many people get injured by pushing themselves too fast, or they simply quit when it hurts too much like I did. The Power 90 DVDs are less expensive and easier to follow for those who haven't seen a gym for a while like me. Do power 90 and really push yourself for about 4 or 5 months, and that will go a long way toward helping you prepare for P90X.This isn't a bad product, and they do warn you that the program is extreme (hence the &#34;X&#34;0) so I can't fault Beach Body or Tony Horton in any way for this one. I just haven't gotten the full value out of this product yet, hence the four stars.


