1346112000
5.0
review/summary: I hate writing reviews, but I have to sharereview/text: I never write reviews about anything. However... this program has impressed me, and I can't not share. I know it's long but I'm a talker.I hit a point where I realized that I need to make a lifestyle change. I was drinking 2-3 liters of soda a day, and wasnt concerned with diet. I was around 215 lbs at 5'10. Finally something clicked and enough was enough. I dumped soda one day and started drinking a gallon of water a day. I knew I wouldn't be able to successfully work out without clearing some toxins and getting my hydration level up. I ordered P90X and gave myself one week to get my diet where it should be. Cut sugar down to one or two small treats a day, try to stick to 1500 calories most days and I let myself a 2000-2500 calorie day twice a week. I still go out to eat, my girlfriend and I went to Olive Garden just this past weekend.I don't want this lifestyle change to suck all of the enjoyment out of my life, it's just time to be smarter.P90X showed up at my house, I was a bit disappointed with the case. The goofy cardboard dvd holder seem cheap and it's kind of tough to get the dvds to slide in and out. I'm really particular about scratching dvds, so that part of the product bugged me. Aside from that the diet book seems to give you a good outline if you're not sure how to properly pick foods and meals.However... today I just finished Plyometrics (fun) as my DAY 16 exercise. I've lost 3 inches over my belly button. I'm down to 193 lbs. I'm stunned. The program is mostly fun. Yoga is pretty boring, but I'm a guy and I like to move. I have more energy. I wake up in the morning when my alarm goes off and I fall right asleep when I get into bed. My sex life is better, my social life is better, my confidence is higher. They have several different people in each episode that show you easy medium and hard ways to do the workouts. I went from 2 pullups to 8 pullups, 7 pushups to 20 pushups. Still cant do many situps, but I've still got a tire wrapped around my waist that's still in the way.Most reviews seem to recommend this for someone already in decent shape. I'm in my mid 20's, I was and still am plenty overweight. I hadn't worked out in at least 5 years or so. I still can't make it through a whole dvd without taking a few extra breaks, but I push with everything I've got every time I do an exercise and I'm noticing results. Don't let negative reviews scare you into thinking you can't handle it. You are your own motivator and if you've hit a point where enough is enough and you really do want to make a change, this program will get you in shape and it'll do it fast. They give you a fitness test at the start, which I think is just to protect their butts if you hurt yourself. I only passed about half of the fitness test and already after just a couple weeks I'm certain I could breeze through it.I bought mine for $120 right from the team beach body website with $8 shipping and handling. Not sure if it was just a sale at the time or what, but this is a bit more expensive through Amazon. Good luck to everyone! I'm now genuinely excited to get to day 30 so I can take my 30 day before and after photo.


