1353542400
4.0
review/summary: Extremely comfortable, but not sure how long pump will lastreview/text: I stay at a friend's house who owns this and have used it a handful of times now. Having the pump physically part of the bed certainly makes it easy to jump plug, press a button, and let it go. You don't have to worry about misplacing the pump, changing batteries if it's not a plug in, or standing next to the bed to hold a pump up to it to fill it up. All of which are honestly minor "issues" with other beds, and not particularly enough of an issue for me to feel that this is particularly makes a difference to be honest. With a turn of a plastic knob, deflating it is technically just as easy. The bed inflates quite quickly, particularly for it's size. It says it's a double-high, but it's muck taller than a Coleman's double-high I use on a pretty regular basis (once a month for a weekend).The main reason I did not give this bed 5 stars is that when I went to deflate it, the pump pulls air from the center and air was sitting on the edges, so I had to work on fenangling the bed a few ways to get it to work. I had to manually push the air out of the sides to get it to the center, and then roll the bed from the bottom, up. The main reason I think this is an issue is that the pump box is so high up on the bed... it made it kind of difficult to get all of the air out to be honest. And the pump sounded like it was really straining since it was pulling on the mattress and not the air, which was stuck in other places.I ended up just turning off the pump while I rolled the bed up and manually pushed the last of the air out. It was more of a pain than I usually have with air mattresses though, and i really wouldn't be surprised if someone wasn't really paying attention to it and ended up killing the pump as a result. I guess the plus of having the other little plug is you could just then use a hand-held pump if the one attached dies. Which, if you wanted to use it camping and there's no electricity you'd have to invest in a battery operated pump anyway. Hand-pumping this would take FOREVER.This is probably one of the most comfortable air mattresses I have ever used. It's so high up that even if there is some deflating over the course of the night, (which I'm sure there is since all air mattresses deflate slightly over the course of the night) the person sleeping on it doesn't notice AT ALL. I have mixed feelings on the "built in" pillow, which is just a high end on one side. I personally don't like it because I also use a regular pillow and it makes my head lift higher than I like. But I just moved down lower than the pillow and it was fine. I could also have slept in the other direction and that would have been perfectly fine as well.Overall, I really enjoyed using this air mattress whenever I visit my friend since it's so comfortable. I just have doubts about how long the built in pump will last. But, honestly for the price I'm not sure I care. This is a GREAT price compared to Coleman's, and more comfortable than their double-high.


