1354233600
4.0
review/summary: hope you like push-ups...review/text: I am on week 12 of my second round of P90X; the first round I did was the "classic" routine and now I am trying the "lean" routine. As a result, I've done all the DVDs a minimum of five times, and some quite a few times more than that. I have exercised fairly regularly for the last 10 or 12 years, and I did do the fitness test from the booklet that came with the DVDs before I started the program. I met or exceeded all of the recommended starting requirements, except for being able to do a pull-up. (More on that later.) At any rate, I believe that I was a good candidate for the program.I will say up front that overall, I find P90X to be a very good program. There are several reasons I didn't give it 5 stars, and I'll list those up front:(1) Cardio was hit or miss. Plyometrics was difficult (though not impossible), but Kenpo X was too easy (I did a lot of Tae Bo, back in the day, and I've tried some other martial arts-based fitness programs, as well, so I do have a basis for comparison). Cardio X was also very easy.(2) Mention of the recovery drink in every DVD. I already paid over $100 for the program and now they're trying to sell me more stuff?(3) Not enough variation with respect to the lower body. I will say right now that I have had a hard time finding a strength-training routine for the legs that actually challenges me. P90X contains only one routine with exercises for the legs (mostly lunges and squats). I, personally, did not find "Legs & Back" to be terribly challenging, although I have talked to other people who found it quite difficult. I suspect your own experience with respect to this DVD will be reflective of your individual strengths and weaknesses.Some things I really liked about P90X:(1) It might sound a little cheesy, but I thought the worksheets were a good idea. During my first round of P90X, I was under a lot of stress in my personal life (finishing my dissertation, defending, graduating, looking for a job, etc.). I have doubts I would have been able to remember from day to day what weights I had used or how many reps I had done. Filling in the worksheets and sticking to a schedule motivated me to actually exercise, and seeing the numbers from the previous workout gave me something to shoot for. It made sure I didn't slack off and do, for example, biceps curls with only 5 pound weights (which might be enough for some people, but I really need to be in the 12-15 pound range for those).(2) I am female and have often had a hard time building upper body strength. In the past, I have had a tendency to fall into the same strength-training routine 2 or 3 days a week. I think I would get used to it, and it would stop being effective, even when I add reps or weight. The variation in P90X helped me get around that particular problem. A few of the exercises are repeated in multiple DVDs, but most of them are new and different, and switching it up (according to the schedule in the booklet that accompanies the DVDs) proved to be quite useful. When I started, I was doing push-ups from my knees, and now when I do the "Chest & Back" DVD, I do over 200 push ups without resting on my knees. I'm starting to see a little muscle definition where I hadn't before, as well. So the results are definitely there.(3) I didn't have to buy any additional equipment. As a long-time exerciser, I already had 5, 8, 10, 12, and 15 pound dumbbells (a good range for a woman starting P90X, by the way). I did the routine on carpet, so I didn't use a yoga mat (I tried, but it slipped on the carpet). A chair is required for some routines, and some routines include the option of using a plastic plate (I had a set of ValSlide sliders and those worked, too). I did not have a chin-up bar, nor did I have an appropriate doorway in which to mount one. Instead, I used a band I already owned, hung over the bar in my front closet. I am getting to the point where the band doesn't provide much challenge anymore, and I am still unable to do a pull-up, so I will have to revisit this issue if I decide to do a third round. If you don't want to go out and buy a lot of weights, a set of bands would be a good option. (If you are going to use bands, you may want to watch the DVDs once first, because the camera doesn't always cut to the bands person until partway through the exercise.) If you travel a lot, the bands also might be a good option because they're much more portable than weights.(4) I thought Tony Horton was an affable host, that he truly enjoys what he does, etc. (He does, however, have a tendency to make references to old movies and repeat a couple of phrases over and over: "variety is the spice of life," Dreya "flies through the air with the greatest of ease," and comments about a "pterodactyl backing out of trouble.") I thought the music was fine; I think there might be an option to turn it off but I never needed to do that. I appreciated that he used a lot of real people (who had completed the program) as models (although there were a few fitness professionals, as well).(5) For someone of my own skill level, I thought the warm-ups and cool-downs were appropriate. If you are new to exercise, you may want to do a little more.I've written a little bit above about results. You'll notice I only mentioned the exercise plan; I did not use the supplements and I did not follow the diet plan. Because of the aforementioned stress in my life, I was not eating well when I did P90X. As a result, I did not lose any weight. However, I also did not gain any weight, and that's important because I was eating all sorts of desserts, high-fat cheese, etc. (For what it's worth, my sister did lose weight doing P90X after her second pregnancy.) In fairness, it is never claimed that you will lose weight when doing P90X, although you might become leaner as you exchange fat for muscle.Some of the negative reviews have claimed that the DVDs didn't work, that they had trouble getting replacements, etc. I bought mine directly from BeachBody and I paid for the $10 lifetime replacement plan. All of mine worked fine and even the ones that I've used most (e.g. Ab Ripper X) show no signs of any problems after multiple uses.Other reviewers have complained about the amount of time you have to dedicate to P90X. I did tweak the program to suit my needs. Because I already do 30 minutes of yoga a day, I did not do the 90 minute "Yoga X" routine except on the rest weeks. (That is a TOUGH yoga workout, by the way.) That allowed me to have two days off instead of just one, which just fits with my schedule better. I did "Ab Ripper X" three times a week during the "classic" round and two times a week during the "lean" round, but not always on the recommended days -- I just did it when I had 20 minutes to spare. I also did not do the DVDs each week in the precise order recommended; I just made sure to get all the DVDs for that week done during that week, without working the same part of the body two days in a row. (So, during the "lean" routine, for example -- if I had very little time, I'd opt for "Cardio X," which is short.)Going forward, I think I am going to try to incorporate the upper-body DVDs ("Chest & Back," "Shoulders & Arms," "Back & Biceps," and "Chest, Shoulders, & Triceps") into a hybrid routine with a stronger cardio focus.


