1350950400
5.0
review/summary: The BEST Water Vessel System Ever!review/text: I've owned two Klean Kanteens (18 oz and 12 oz, both with the classic loop) for over a year now and they are absolutely fabulous! They are my top recommendation for anyone looking for a water bottle, eco-friendly drink container or gift idea! I drink from them on a daily basis and keep them filled and ready to go in the fridge. They don't retain flavors if you put something other than water in them and I have never noticed a metal taste - just a pure, clean water taste! The mouth opening is wide enough that I have no problem fitting a bottle brush in to clean them. But, in reality, most of the time, I just run them through the dishwasher (caps and bottles). And I love the loop cap since it's leak-proof and easy to hold/carry. Also I love that any of the other cap styles will also fit if I ever decide to purchase them (I had thought about it, but I really like my loop caps). And the lids go on and come off easily - no fiddling around to get the threads to line up properly. When empty, the bottles are pretty lightweight so you are never lugging around heavy empty bottles which is good when you stuff them in your bag after a long day. They also fit nicely in our car's cup holders so they are always within easy reach while traveling.Seriously, these bottles go everywhere with me! The 12 oz size is small enough for me to carry in my purse without adding too much weight. And the 18 oz is always next to me in my apartment. I don't think I have used a glass cup for water since I got these two bottles (well, except when they are both in the dishwasher, which is rare since I try to keep one available at all times!)! And the best part...even though ice cubes easily fit in the mouth of the bottle, I rarely have to use them because the water stays cool for a long time! I usually take one bottle out in the morning, set it on my desk and it will stay cool until dinner. I have even had them stay cool overnight next to the bed or for a few hours in the car on a warm day (ps. if the water does get warm, you still don't get a metal taste, you just get warm water.). I'm not saying they keep the water really cold, but they definitely keep it cooler than if I had left water out in a regular glass.These things are sturdy too! I dropped a full one (18 oz) from about waist height onto pavement once and thought "well, that must be the end of that", but no! It just dented and scratched the bottom a little, but the bottle is still fully functional, with no leaks, although it leans slightly to side now. The paint has come off a bit on the bottom, but nothing major. It just adds character. But if that bothers you, get the unpainted stainless steel and you will never have that problem. But really, it's just "battle scars" because, like I said, they go everywhere with me! I can't leave the house without them and if I do, I just feel naked without my trusty, tasty water bottle!


