1355788800
5.0
review/summary: For $85? Sold.review/text: Is this the highest-end watch on the planet? No, but at $85 I can safely say that Invicta's offering would be a bargain at twice the price. It is easily the highest-quality automatic watch you will find for under $100.Take for instance the band: Invicta famously makes outrageously comfortable stainless steel bands, and this one is certainly no exception. The band itself is solidly made and the clasp has a firm &#34;click&#34; sound when it's locked (though if the band has a weakness, it's the clasp which, though improved over previous models, is still on the shinty side), but more than that, it's really comfortable, even for people like me who have pretty small wrists with--I'll just say it--lots of arm hair the thing never feels confining or catches on a hair. Ever.The watch will scratch though. All over. There's nothing you can do about it--it's just going to happen. Between the liberal use of mirror-polish stainless steel on the band and the relatively soft mineral crystal, the thing is going to suffer the occasional ding. But it's not like you're going to pass this watch down to your kids. It's an everyday watch--one you can wear day in, day out and not have to think or worry about.That said, it really does look great, especially under dressier clothes (suits especially). It's shiny enough to be eye-catching but understated enough to be classy. Be careful though: even though it isn't the thickest watch out there, it is still an automatic, meaning the case of the watch is thicker than your average quartz's. This is to say that not EVERY dress shirt you own has enough sleeve space for it to sit on the natural spot on your wrist.Feature-wise, the watch isn't *missing* anything, which is great--shocking, really--for this price point. In point of fact, the only downsides the 8926OB really has involve features that exist in the watch but that suffer with execution--put another way, the 8926OB's only cons are fairly typical of an entry-level watch.Pros:- That luscious, luscious band- The automatic movement results in a sweeping second hand movement, which is much--MUCH--more attractive than the one-tick-one-second movements of a quartz movement- It's reasonably accurate (my watch is only a few weeks old at the time of this writing, but it's actually gained a 8 or 10 seconds. This is not unusual for a young automatic watch; they usually settle into a more accurate count after a few months.- The black-and-silver design lets the watch work with pretty much anything in your closet, no matter what you wearCons:- Second hand does have a somewhat visible stutter (the watch has a 21,600-beats-per-hour movement, which is quite good for a &#60;$100 watch, but it is still jerky enough to be visible with the naked eye from a foot or so away).- Detailing. The cyclops (the magnifier over the date) is not perfectly centered over the date on every watch--many, including mine, are visibly off-center- The luminous features on the watch do a great job for the first few minutes, but after 15 or so, they won't be visible no matter how much they were charged- The mineral crystal is less scratch resistant than a sapphire oneAll in all, if you're looking for an automatic dive watch for less than $100, this is it. No questions, no hesitations whatsoever. This is your watch. Enjoy!


