1353542400
5.0
review/summary: Excellent purchasereview/text: So my doctor tells me I need to lose weight, and like any normal guy, I ignore him, until a few weeks ago, when it finally hits me that it's starting to cost me some serious money in clothes, food etc. and I figure "that guy MIGHT be on to something!".The exercise program I'm going with recommends monitoring your heart rate, and given my now-proven-wrong notion that my job was keeping me active enough that I wasn't getting fatter by the day, I thought there might be some merit to my research that said I should be tracking how hard my heart was working while I was exercising to try to lose some weight.Given that this is one of the more popular heart rate monitor on Amazon right now, "peer pressure" led me to believe this was the one to buy, and after having it for a bit, I can see why it's so highly rated.One of my biggest concerns with this was whether the strap would fit around my chest. I measure 60 inches at the point the strap is supposed to be placed, and I think it could go another 5-8 inches if need be.Another concern was all the people who were getting wonky readings, or no readings at all. I've uploaded a pic from the manual, and if you look at that pic, I've highlighted in red the area that needs to be moistened for the sensor to work properly. When I first opened up the package, I did what any typical guy would do - toss the directions aside (those are for suckers, right?) and try to see if I can get a reading with this thing. I was thinking the center part was the sensor, but pressing it against my chest wasn't giving me anything. I know I'm heartless and all, but I should be getting SOME reading! Pressing the whole belt flat against my chest finally got a spotty reading (number would flash for a second or three, then back to heartless). After reading the directions and getting the sensors wet, it worked as long as it had good contact with my chest - holding it on my chest by hand wasn't sufficient, you NEED to attach the elastic strap and put the whole shebang ON! Go figure!I also ordered theSpectra 360 Electrode Gel Parker Labs, Each 250GM Tubewhich arrived a few days later. Using the gel (I would say I used an amount roughly the size of my pinky fingernail and the lightest coat possible) seems to give more consistent readings, and at the very least, feels like I've coated the entire sensor area, since it doesn't run off like plain water will do. That tube is 8.5 oz and with the amount I used, that tube seems like it'll EASILY last me at least a year, if not more.On to the watch. The watch is a plastic-banded watch with more uses to it than just a monitor readout. It will serve perfectly fine as a replacement for your regular beater non-dress watch if you so desire. Time, date, stopwatch, timer and alarm functions are easy to figure out and fiddle with, and there's a button for an Indiglo-like backlight.All in all, my concerns about this item were settled. The sensor strap fit my fat-guy-physique, the sensor gave readings straight out of the box, and the watch/monitor works and can double as an everyday watch.


