1346284800
5.0
review/summary: This watch has the Seiko 24 Jewel NH35A Movement.review/text: I received this watch a couple of days ago, so these are just my first impressions. First, the movement on this watch is the newer Seiko 24J, NH35A movement, with hack feature (the main reason I ordered this watch). So far, it has been fairly accurate, gaining 5+ seconds over a 24 hour period. Gaining time is more desirable than losing time, since you can easily correct a fast running watch by pulling out the crown (hack feature) to stop the second hand for a few seconds. I would guess that over time, this may change slightly (+/-), but it is fairly accurate right now.The bezel is somewhat difficult to rotate. I'm hoping that over time, this will loosen somewhat. But right now, the coin edge really digs into my fingers (but, that's not a deal breaker for me). The good news is that once you rotate the bezel to time something, you'll appreciate the fact that it has two clicks per minute.Other than that, I'd say the overall build quality on my watch is very good for the price point of around $90. Given some of the negative reviews, I had a bit of nervous anticipation when I opened the box. But, everything with the watch I received was just fine. I've purchased a lot of mechanical watches over the years, and this one is the best quality of any $90 watch that I've ever purchased.So, if you are in the market for an affordable self-winding watch with hack feature, go ahead and give this one a try.*Update after 3 weeks*I've had the watch about three weeks and have worn it just about every day. I continue to be pleased with the accuracy of the movement. It is much more accurate if I wear the watch 24/7, losing about 1 second over the course of a day. In fact, the only time it runs a little fast is if I leave it on the nightstand overnight, when it gains around 3 to 4 seconds. The watch appears to have been regulated by the company to run best when worn consistently. I would also like to add that I purchased this watch from Amazon, and not one of the other sellers. Amazon seems to sell out of these watches on a regular basis. So, if you do happen to catch them in stock and order it from Amazon, you can be fairly sure that you will get the newest NH35A movement. Also, I've gotten used to the rotating bezel, and it seems to turn easier now.


