1350000000
5.0
review/summary: I've never imagined how much better Ray-Bans could be until I purchased them for myself.review/text: Let me just say this at the top here. BUY THESE SUNGLASSES RIGHT NOW.Let me tell you why. I've been searching for the perfect pair of sunglasses for around 6 months now, trying to avoid spending the extra $ on Ray-bans. Oh, how wrong I was to do so.I bought the Ray-Ban Arista/Gold frame/58mm G-15 XLT lens.QUALITY:Insane. ABSOLUTELY INSANE. I've never seen so much clarity in my life. Consider glare gone. the bright white light that bounces off the houses in my neighborhood is completely non-existent. No more squinting. The slight-green color (completely unnoticeable to others) gives the world a more natural hue. The frame is completely quality. It's real, and brand-spanking new. (Sold from amazon, 86$ version) You can just tell these glasses are quality.LOOKS: Absolutely gorgeous. Gold color is bold, the lenses (polarized AND non-polarized) look completely black. Very sexy. Size is IMPORTANT. If you don't know which size will look best, buy 58mm. They're a tiny bit smaller than store-bought aviators. If you want HUGE aviators, buy 62mm. If you have a small face, 55mm. If you have a head the size of a baseball, 52mm. (I recommend trying the smaller sizes out if you have a small head. You never know if you will look better with bigger sunglasses.)PRICE: If you buy 2 pairs of sunglasses a year for around 20$ each (scratching/breaking), you'd spend 200-400$ on crappy, store-bought, scratchable, smudgy, easily-breakable sunglasses. The lifespan of these glasses is 5-10 years MINIMUM. If you keep them in good condition, they can last a lifetime. Just like with a phone, once you own an expensive pair of sunglasses, you inadvertently end up taking care of them better. (think prescription glasses.)So please, PLEASE buy these. They are a bit pricey, but for the reasons mentioned above, they are actually going to end up saving you money.Also, brand recognition. People will stop you on the streets to complement you (no matter which gender)!BUY THESE RIGHT NOW.


