1358726400
5.0
review/summary: Just what I neededreview/text: I have been considering getting a bicycle rack for my car, but they were always more money than I wanted to pay. So, after reading the reviews on Amazon, I was pretty excited to get this Allen 2-bike trunk rack.I was a little leery of getting a rack that just straps on to the back of your car, but after checking some of the more expensive models, I discovered that pretty much all trunk racks were this way.Installation couldn't be easier, just hook the hooks on the back of your trunk (my car is a 2012 Kia Rio), tighten, and put your bike on. I keep my rack in the trunk when I don't have a bike on it, just so it doesn't walk away. It doesn't take up too much trunk space and I haven't run into a situation where it was in the way.I have used the rack for my 5 year old's 12 inch bike, my 7 year old's 18 inch bike, a 55cm road bike, and a 23 inch mountain Bike. It holds all the bikes securely (though no more than two at a time!).I used the rack for a 1200 mile round trip and had no issues. I had two bikes on it and they looked like they belonged there.The 2 pieces of advice I would have for people who would use this rack would be:1. don't pull the straps too tight. I kept pulling the straps tight on my trip because I was concerned that my bikes would fall off. When I got to my destination and took the rack off, my trunk lid popped back into place. I had tightened the straps so much they made the metal of the lid bend! No permanent damage was done, but it's not something that I would want to keep doing.2. always make sure the pads are in contact with the car. On a short trip, bringing my daughter's bike back from her school, I noticed a black mark on my car where the rack had come in contact with my car. Luckily, it was the paint from the rack and not a scuff on my car. But if the trip was longer, it might have done more damage. The pad slid out of position and the rack was metal to metal with the car.Overall, I would recommend this rack to anybody who needs to carry bikes on their car. The amount of time and effort that I save from having to take the wheels off my bike and stick it in the trunk any time I need to go somewhere with my bike and my car is well worth the cost of the rack.


