1344816000
4.0
review/summary: Good Retention and Fit, Slimmer Than Most Retention Holstersreview/text: I bought this holster after trying an off-brand version of the trigger-finger retention system. I liked the other one ok, but this one is great! The release is perfectly positioned and Goldilocks perfect for tension when depressed to release. The button is a long rectangle, so it should be reachable by everyone with their different hand sizes.The release is pretty instinctual and your trigger-finger ends up exactly along the bottom of the slide, where it should be. It doesn't take much repetition to learn and memorize the technique. I was hesitant to buy a holster with this retention system (release near the trigger), but now I don't know how a person would have a negligent discharge. I can't imagine having one with a proper trigger pull weight on a double/safe action pistol or even a light single-action pistol with proper draw technique (don't prematurely release the safety).The adjustable belt loop is nice and adjustable, fits up to a 2 1/4" belt. The adjustment is done via tabs that clamp down onto loops with screws, so they are infinitely adjustable. The paddle attachment that the holster comes with (a big plus) is good quality, but a bit large. It just fits between the belt loops on my 34" waist jeans in the 4 o'clock position, though the width is a plus for stability. It some funny bits to install for the belt sizing, but after you do, they work well. All of the attachments have a couple of tilts you can mount the holster at, which is a must-have for me.The holster and attachments are a sturdy molded plastic and are good and stiff, but don't feel brittle or anything. It doesn't seem to scratch.The holster is not really summer concealable as it still sticks out a bit, but it would probably be fine for winter. However, it is slimmer than most retention holsters that I have come across.I bought the right hand version for my Glock 22 Gen 4. It fits almost perfectly. My only gripe is that it rattles ever-so-slightly when running/jumping, but it is not a big deal and of course it won't come out.


