1354406400
4.0
review/summary: Fantastic Bike Pump, Poor Instructions (for the novice)review/text: Upon receiving this pump, I was excited to go into the garage and try it out. I first used an Allen key to remove the item from the packaging, and was pleasantly surprised to find that I can use the holder as a mount on my bicycle! This mount neatly is sandwiched between my frame and my water bottle holder, and fits perfectly without any chance of scratching the finish on the frame.Now, onto using it (and please note, it's been 10+ years since I've ever bought a pump for a bicycle, so therefore, I'm a novice), I came to realize that the tip won't fit. I tried everything, and it wouldn't work. I did think about pulling the rubber tip out, but at this point, I was worried that doing this may break what I thought was a permanent seal and permanently damage the pump, rendering it unusable (and also non-returnable)The packaging also offered no answers. It shows you how to remove the device from the packaging using an Allen key, and how to lock and unlock the tip, but nothing else. The thought of me buying the wrong pump type entered my mind, but I went onto Google and YouTube for some help.And here, was my answer, and ironically, a video by the manufacturer (Topeak) themselves!Edit: Looks like Amazon will delete YouTube links from reviews. Please go to YouTube, and search for the phrase "How To | Changing internal pump head parts". It's a video uploaded by "ExtraUKtv"This explains how to simply remove and rotate the rubber insert (yes, the same one I thought I couldn't touch) so I could use the pump on a Presta and / or Schrader valve type.Topeak, You could try adding 2 extra inches of cardboard on your packaging, and showing 1-2 pictures explaining clearly how to change the head on this pump. And for what it's worth, looking at other reviews, it seems I'm not alone. This would have been a 5 star review, but due to lack of instructions, I gave it a 4 star overall.Overall, this is a lightweight, beautifully made and very efficient pump, that is effortless to use. I love it, and hope that the manufacturer thinks about the simple idea above to make novice user's first impressions more positive.


