1358035200
4.0
review/summary: Excellent for on-the-go, don't recommend as your only pumpreview/text: Yeah, I bought it as my only pump, and it's still my only pump, but that's kind of a mistake that I really should rectify, but it's just adequate enough that I can't bring myself to purchase a regular size pump in addition. The one thing that seriously annoyed me when I got it is that it comes with no instruction booklet (only some vague pictorial instructions printed on the card that it's zip-tied to) and I had no idea why it wasn't fitting onto my bike tire. Yeah yeah, call me a newb, but I had to look at other amazon reviews to realize you had to actually dis-assemble the tip and jam the two little plastic pieces together in the unique orientation that matches your kind of tire (all the while trying not to drop them on the floor lest they roll away forever under some kitchen appliance) without much guide as to which way around you should put them together. I went through that kerfuffle all over again when a friend's tire went flat during a ride, and his tire was different from mine, and I didn't have the little card handy -- I must have tried every configuration twice. Well if you're more experienced with tires and pump attachments than I, maybe this wouldn't be your experience, but it's worth keeping in mind. And yes, as other reviewers have mentioned, it really does take a good deal of pumping (I always take off my jacket beforehand so I don't get too warm &#60;-- dude this is a really important step, it's kind of like an arm-based cardio workout). Also sometimes it's really hard to fit it right onto the tire. I know what you're thinking... that I haven't said anything positive about it and I've still given it four stars. Well, I mean it is SO light and SO small that I forget to take it out of my messenger bag when I'm not biking, and it really is meant to be used as an on-the-road stop gap measure and since bikes are transportation for me rather than dedicated bike rides where I go out and then come back home... I don't want to tote around a full-sized bike pump. And it's so cheap! And it comes with a little rack that you can mount to your bike to stick it in but DON'T DO IT if you're going to leave your bike somewhere because if I were a thief I would totally steal it from you. Anyway yeah, I like it, and recognize that aside from the inexcusable lack of instructions, the only reason it bugs me is because I'm using it as my sole bike pump.


