1358899200
4.0
review/summary: Be Honest with Yourself Before Buyingreview/text: This is an excellent, effective program for the individual who is committed and, more importantly, prepared. I've been athletic all of my life, but I confess that my commitment started to trail off a few years back after an injury. I decided that I wanted to get in the best shape I could over a reasonable period, so I started with "Tony Horton's Power 90 Beachbody In-Home Boot Camp." (Tony Horton's Power 90 Beachbody In-Home Boot Camp) I've been a runner, hiker, skier, and, most recently, a cyclist, and I've participated in Body Pump sessions at my gym. Most of my workouts in those sports have been casual, at least from the perspective of making an effort toward all-round fitness. The Boot Camp really surprised me, because it produced results fairly quickly and didn't result in the sort of injuries and pains that, say, the Body Pump sessions sometimes did. That was very significant, because I'm almost 60, and injuries seem to be coming more and more frequently these days. I waited to mention that until I was a ways into the review, since I think my experience translates to people of all ages. Having gotten fairly comfortable with the advanced level of the Boot Camp DVDs, I decided to move to P90X. My experience, which I've noticed is shared by many of my acquaintances who've tried P90X, is that the transition is quite steep. The "X" in the title really does stand for "Extreme." Anyone who purchases this needs to be in very good shape already if they're going to get real benefits out of it without getting injured. If you're a week-end warrior or an athlete who's taken a couple of years off, start with the Boot Camp DVD. In fact, even if you consider yourself pretty fit, you'd be better off trying the Boot Camp DVD first, just to be certain that it's easy for you and that you're ready. Another reason to get the Boot Camp DVD is that P90X requires a very significant time commitment (which I, as a lawyer, find difficult to make). P90X is a series of 12 muscle-group-specific sessions of about 45 minutes to an hour each, whereas the Boot Camp DVD will give you a complete circuit in the same period. If you're not able to commit that much time just about every day of the week, you may be better off doing the complete workout in the Boot Camp DVD a few days a week.


