1345939200
3.0
review/summary: Not Bad, Not Greatreview/text: I've owned this grill for about 6 weeks now, and have used it to cook bacon-wrapped figs, steaks, ribs, veal chops, chicken kabobs, and tuna steaks.Cooking with the lid down? Yes, you can cook with the lid down. The lid has been down every time I've used the grill, and I've had no issues such as the handle melting, or the lid warping.Side tables melting? No, I've always used the grill without pulling out the plastic side tables. No melting issues.Easy to clean? Yes and no. Cleaning the grill itself (interior/exterior) is super easy. I've been using Lysol's Dual Action wipes to scrub up the grease and food bits, then a pass with dry paper towels to clean up any residue. The grill is as clean and shiny as when I bought it. The removable drip tray is easy to clean, too. Cleaning the grill grates, however, has been a pain. I've used high-heat grilling spray on the grates before cooking, but even after soaking, and lots of scrubbing, I can't get everything off.Grill cooks hot? Yes, it has been hard to dial-in on the right temperature settings. As other reviewers have said, this grill cooks hot, and I've never had to go above medium. Even when trying to be conservative, I find that food tends to stick more than I'm used to. Keep an eye on what you're doing and you'll be fine. Walk away for 5-10 minutes and you may end up burning the food.Cooking performance? Things like steaks and chops cook up great. Things that have been marinated (with or without sugar in the marinade) tend to stick. The grill performed the worst with ribs; the center area of the ribs that touched the grill grates was cooked through and nicely charred, but the outsides were still mushy. Probably would have been better to finish the ribs under the broiler than on the grill.Overall impression? I've cooked on better, and cooked on worse. The grill is great for my balcony, where the complex has restrictions on the size of the grill and propane canister. However, I'm left wondering whether I would get an equal or better outcome using my cast iron grill pan on the stove. The grill works for now and I'm looking forward to taking it with me when I go camping. When I move out of this complex, however, I will be getting a different grill.


