1347580800
5.0
review/summary: Not just your camping cookware!!!review/text: Quick Review:Buy it! Great price, very practical for home use or camping, extremely durable and well worth the only con... it is heavy.***Tip: Don't season (grape seed oil or such) because it has already been done. Instead cook a slab of bacon (or other greasy food). Clean with water and wipe with salt and paper towels.Long Review:I bought this piece as an introduction to replacing my Teflon coated pots/pans. I had a great set I had bought back a few years ago at a box store but wanted something different. After researching my different options I decided against stainless steel, copper and the many Teflon style options. With cast iron I liked the rustic look, longevity of product (with minimal proper care needed), the fact I didn't need to worry about wearing a coating off by using the incorrect kitchen utensil type and the massive versatility of cast iron!I tested this in my kitchen and camping too. While using it in the kitchen make sure you have a set of high temperature mitts to protect yourself. The cast iron holds a hot temperature and you may find yourself forgetting to put a mitt on if you use other pots/pans with protective handles. I used this in the oven for meat dishes (that seared nicely if preheated in the oven first); pan frying veggies, eggs and deep frying. All of which dinner guests and I were satisfied with.While camping this was the primary cooking pot used. Not because I was trying to put it through a rigorous test at the time but because I found myself wanted to use it. I cooked this over a propane stove but could have easily used this over the campfire with no concern that it could handle the job.Clean-up was easy too. One option is to boil water and wipe clean. I did this while camping and it was a breeze for any messy food that was cooked. Other option is wiping clean and then pouring a little salt (I used sea salt) inside and then using a paper towel to wipe out afterwards (you don't need to remove all the salt). This builds the seasoning and preps it for the next meal.If you have heard of cast iron sticking, rusting or other issues then you are not alone. The package does come with a troubleshoot guide by the manufacture and gives helpful, lighthearted and practical advice on how to overcome any problems you may run across.I would recommend buying this product and expect to get many years of good use out of it.


