1344470400
4.0
review/summary: good but not perfectreview/text: It seems everybody just loves P90X. But IMHO it's not a perfect product, and most other reviewers praising P90X are converts from a couch potato to athlete. Which is good for them. But the world doesn't end with P90X.In summary the package consists of a diet guide (nutrition plan), a fitness plan, an exercise calendar and a set of 12 DVDs showing a group of 3-4 people exercising being led by Tony H. Plus you need to download and print some worksheets to track your progress. Expect to be encouraged to take "before" and "after" photos. Do it just to laugh at yourself later.P90X is actually a three bit different programs: Classic, Doubles and Lean. Classic is probably the one everybody is doing and talking about. Lean is for lean muscle (more cardio and light training). Doubles is similar to Classic with an exception for 3-4 days a week that consist of two trainings: one cardio (morning) and one from Classic (afternoon). If you chose to do the Classic you'll actually need about 7-8 DVDs of those 12.The program is divided into 3 macro-cycle phases (training blocks). Each block is 4 weeks total = 3 weeks hard + 1 week light (resting phase).Each week is also divided into three 2-day micro-cycles + 1 day rest. Essentially Monday-Wednesday-Friday is a weightlifting day (chest&back;/shoulders&arms;/legs&back;), Tuesday-Thursday-Saturday is a cardio-style training (plyo/yoga/kenpo). Sunday is a rest or strech day. On weightlifting days you also do abs (I'd recommend a several hour break between the main training and abs).What I don't like about P90X:1. Talking-talking-talking. It never stops. Actually some of Tony's jokes are funny, at least for the first time you hear them, but imagine watching the DVD for the 3rd time, and 4th, and so on and on.2. The pull-up bar - the bar they are using is wide, and the door bar they are selling with P90X is not so wide, so you won't be able to do as many pull-ups as they do.3. Some design flaws - one of the upper body workouts is badly designed in my opinion. In the first set you do pull-ups, then bicep curls, lawnmowers, and again pull-ups. Now after you get to the muscle failure in the bicep curl set, then forget about the rest of the training. You won't be able to do too much of pull-ups anymore because you're biceps are already done for the day, although your back muscles are barely warmed up. There is one weightlifting rule broken here: work the strongest muscle groups first, then finish training with the weak ones. For this one alone, I'm taking off one star.4. Yoga - although it's good, it's a bit inconsistent. Some poses are done for 30seconds on one side, then 15-20 on the other side. If you're not new to vinyasa yoga then consider skipping this one. I'd recommend some of the Yoga DVSs by Rodney Yee instead (e.g.Power Yoga - Strength), but instead of the flowing style-relaxing yoga that Rodney does, stay in each pose for 20seconds and with the forward leg bent at 90-deg - this way you'll do yoga and isometric thigh training simultaneously. The thighs are one of the larges muscle groups in human body, so expect sweating like a pig. :)5. Kenpo - if you did some serious karate training in the past (like european or japanese way), then do your thing instead, :) - the zenkutsu-dachi pose (similar to warrior pose in yoga) and kiba-dachi are practically non-existent here. You'll kick some air all-right, but if you get down to kiba-dachi between kicks, you'll get some real leg training too. Also consider holding 1lb weights when punching the air.6. Heart rate and breaks - some breaks between sets are a bit too long, sometimes a bit short, not always consistent. Especially on cardio days, just use HR monitor and do breaks long enough to get your heart rate below lactate treshold. I'd recommend "Precision Heart Rate Training" by Edmund Burke. From this book you may also learn how to design your own workout program, and maybe you won't need P90X at all.7. Diet - this one actually IMHO is the most important here. You may take only the general advice from the diet guide, like how to calculate your BMR, and the caloric proportions of protein:carb:fat (1st month 50:30:20, 2nd 40:40:20, 3rd 20:60:20). Then instead of following the guide just buy a kitchen scale and sign up to one of the online diet journals. If you're a real hardcore you may use the USDA food database and an Excel spreadsheet instead to monitor your caloric intake more exactly. These caloric proportions may be good for those whose goal is to lose body fat. But if you're an athlete just trying to get more fit, you may use theZone Dietinstead (prot:carb:fat ratio 30:40:30) or some modification of it.In summary, if you're a couch potato looking for something to help you lose that extra fat, then this is it. I'm not aware about anything that could be better. Off course you may join some local Cross Fit club and pay way more each month than the one-time cost of P90X. Despite those flaws I listed above I believe P90X to be one of the best programs, just because there are nothing else to compare with. But don't stop doing P90X over and over, expand your knowledge and start creating your own workouts.But if you are or were an athlete, and you're just looking for ideas and exercises, you may use P90X to look up some exercises and then design your own workout program. I'd recommend a good interval training device (Timex Ironmanwatch or aGymbosstimer), a kitchen scale (like this onePolder Slimmer Digital Kitchen Scale) and a diet journal. If you do intervals (eg. Tabata), you may even get better results than with P90X in a much shorter time frame.


