1350000000
5.0
review/summary: Better than I thought it would bereview/text: I have several folding knives, from a $10 'beater' to a top brand lockback, that runs about $200. After owning this knife, I feel I overpaid on my top brand one.The handle is smooth, and comfortable, with rounded edges that are comfortable, and won't wear a hole in your pocket. The pocket clip does what it is supposed to do, while being out of the way when you are actually using the knife. The blade is sharp, and comes to a wicked point, which makes me think this knife is better suited for utility use, than it would be for tactical use, where greater tip strength would be desired.Holds an edge well, and sharpens easily, it seems to have very good blade steel, for its price point. From what I can tell, everything metal appears to be Stainless Steel, with a few little pieces that appear to be plastic, consisting of a spacer between the handle scales, and the little latch that holds the blade locked shut (more on that in a minute).The Speed Safe mechanism works well, with very little practice, one can open the blade very reliably, with one hand. Maybe not the 'fastest' opening knife out there, but again, I think this is designed more for utility and practicality, than for tactical purposes. Unlocking the blade is easy enough (some frame locks are notoriously hard to unlock, either due to a very strong spring, or too small of an area to grip the lock with), but remember when folding, it will close with more difficulty than a normal locking knive would, because as you close the blade, you are re-setting the Speed Safe mechanism.The handles are a nice smooth finish stainless, that doesn't show smudges or fingerprints as much as I thought they might, and everything seems precisely made, and as a bonus it is made in the USA.About my only nit to pick, is the safety that locks the blade shut, so it can't open acidentally. It almost seems to be added as an afterthought. Don't get me wrong, it works as it is supposed to, and works smoothly, but it takes the 'Speed' out of 'Speed Safe' when you engage it. When it is locked, if you want to open the blade one-handed, it is simple enough. Just pull the knife from your pocket, dis-engage the safety, then roll the knive over in your hand (easy enough to do, as the shape of the knife allows you to do it, without much worry of losing your grip on the knife), then you find the little 'ear' on the backside of the blade, that protrudes up from between the handle scales, and 'flick' it, to fully open the knife. All you need to do is 'flick' it hard enough to get the blade partly open, and the Speed Safe mechanism does the rest. It isn't hard to do, but speedy, it isn't.However, the blade seems quite secure, even without the extra lock engaged, so in a situation where you might use the knife fairly frequently, I think one could leave the safety disengaged, making it much quicker to open.All in all a well made, practical knife, made right here in the USA.


