1354060800
4.0
review/summary: Portable and Versatile Grill with Decent Build Qualityreview/text: I bought the grill about two weeks after Hurricane Sandy. We didn't have power for about a week so camping / emergency gear were high on our lists of things to get. We have very very slowly been getting camping gear over the last two years but the hurricane made the camping gear go up on our list of priorities since it can also be used for emergencies.I did a ton of research and came up with either the Road Trip, Coleman's duel fuel Camping stove or the Camp Chef Explorer 2-Burner Stove. I was leaning to the Camp Chef with good reviews but two things made me go with the Coleman: 1) Portability / Versatility and 2) Cost.The Coleman just seemed to be more Versatile being able to use it easily as a second grill or for tailgating etc whereas the Camp Chef seems to be more dedicated for camping. It also seems to be less portable with the Coleman having wheels. Also once you figure in the total cost for the grill / pots etc..the Coleman was actually cheaper.Having read many reviews I am still not sure about how adjustable the Coleman is...seems like it is either on High, Low or Off...but have not used it enough to comment.Let's go through some of the negative comments about the grill:1) Putting down the lid while fire is on results in instant melt down of the plastic handle and knobs.I have put down the lid while the fire was on LOW. I do think if the fire was on high, given the amount of BTU this small grill puts out, the plastic parts would melt and the metal couldeven be warped. There are two sides to this issue: Side one...come on Coleman for 5 bucks more you could have made these parts metal avoided this problem. Side two: You can't fix stupid. Of course you should not put down the lid on a small portable grill with plastic parts on a grill that burns as hot as ours...do you want portability and a decent price then you have to take the good and the bad.2) No wind guards on the sides. This is really a non-issue. 90 percent of the time wind is not an issue. When it is you either position the grill so the lid will block the wind when its up or you find something else to block the wind.3) The lid comes open in transit and other times. Yeah...the "lock" is not that solid and the heavy cast iron grill plates can cause serious damage and pop that little lock open in a heart beat. Again, use some common sense when transporting. You probably do want to either buy the cover which does a better job of securing the grills or take them out during rough transport.Anyway...my final thoughts are this is a very versatile and portable grill that does a good job at its assigned task. There are some pluses and minuses but if you want a a grill at a decent price with this kind of versatility and portability go with the Coleman. This grill leans more to the tailgate grill than the camp site but does nicely at both and the wheels are nice.The Camp Chef with all the extra's is more expensive but if you camp allot you probably want to go with the Camp Chef.


