1355702400
5.0
review/summary: The perfect holster for my pistolreview/text: OK let me start by saying I'm far from an expert in handguns or holsters. But I know quality when I see it or touch it. I was using an open top Fobus paddle Holster for my pistol. I have a Taurus 24/7 OSS Tactical pistol in 9mm. The Fobus holster was fine for my initial use & until I learned more about holsters. But a few problems with the Fobus nagged at me. I didn't understand why they bothered until I handled this Blackhawk holster & saw & felt the difference. First there was no retention to the holster. It was all too easy to just reach over & pull my pistol out just standing in front of me. I didn't know this when I bought it as I said earlier I was no real expert in these matters. Secondly it was demonstrated to me just how easy it was to twist out the paddle that held the holster & my gun to hip. Both of these scenarios, demonstrated to me by a state DOT officer, really opened my eyes to the need for a retention holster that at least offered level 2 adjustment (whatever that meant).After careful study & going on the same officer's recommendations I found Blackhawk. Now of course after finding the holster that fit my pistol I immediately went to Amazon to see if I could order it from here. Good news when I saw it was available at a better value than the other online retailers & it was eligible for Prime Shipping as well. A win-win situation all around. I ordered on a Saturday evening & received the package the following Monday.After at first just getting accustomed to the holster & learning how it worked I found it to be exceptionally tight & hard to remove my pistol. But once I learned how to effectively adjust the retention & practiced my draw technique (both are must do as soon as you get a holster like this), I was able to draw & re-holster my pistol without much trouble at all. I tried the included belt paddle on the holster but never got too comfortable with it's placement on my waistline. So I stuck with the belt attachment & it works great. I also like that the pistol rides a little up & off my hip in the holster making it easy to grab the handle of the gun in an almost natural reach to my side motion. The weight of the pistol is also greatly reduced in this holster. It isn't the lightest pistol I've ever used or had in a holster either weighing in at almost 40oz with a loaded magazine (which is how I carry my pistol chambered, cocked, & locked, otherwise what's the point?) so I appreciate the fact that this holster reduces the pull down effect on my jeans.I find the construction of this holster to be superior to the Fobus holster it is replacing for daily carry use (I'll still use the Fobus at the Range during practice). The material it is made of is a soft touch polymer & completely shields the barrel of the pistol which is also a good thing. Another nice side effect is the thin body construction of the holster. This holster allows me to actually wear it with the pistol inside while driving & using a seatbelt in my car. That I couldn't do with the Fobus holster for reasons I don't know why as they seem almost the same size. I find almost no faults with this holster at all in terms of it's construction & packaging or the included instructions. I also learned this holster is made in the USA (Montana) which I'm all for as well.This is my first Blackhawk holster but it will not be my last. Highly recommended for duty, recreational or personal defense. Blackhawk got the endorsement of a law enforcement officer to me so that was enough to convince me of the quality. I'm glad I listened!


