1348185600
4.0
review/summary: Looking for a woman's POV on P90X? Here's one...review/text: A little background: I am 35 years old and had my second child in September 2011. I lost 30 pounds in 2009 by running with a little bit of Tae Bo and a lot of Alli (weight loss supplement). The weight came back with trying to get pregnant/being pregnant so I wanted to get back to 1) my pre-baby weight and 2) my smallest weight ever. My husband gave me P90X as a Christmas gift (by request) and I started the program April 2, 2012 and finished July 1, 2012.I give the program four stars rather than five for two reasons: 1) equipment and 2) certain aspects of Tony Horton's personality. I'll tell you about my complaints upfront and give my positives later because I feel that you need to hear the minor quibbles first before I gush.1) Equipment. I had my own weights, but I didn't have a pull-up bar. In fact, I didn't get a pull-up bar until the last month and still cannot do a complete pull-up without a chair, but that's my fault for waiting so long to get a stupid bar. I hate that I had to buy a pull-up bar. The one I bought was not the one offered by Beachbody. It's a decent substitute, but I wish I could have sprung for the Beachbody model.I dislike the amount of equipment I needed for this. I had to have 1) a yoga mat & block (the latter is advisable if you haven't done much yoga previously); 2) a pull-up bar; 3) free weights (if you have them, great; if you don't, start looking for coupons or for some inexpensive sets on Craigslist); and 4) lots of workout clothes. Because I didn't have much workout clothing, I had to invest in a few more since I couldn't wear an outfit more than a day or two because of the sweat.I did invest in those push-up bars and a set of bands (neither from Beachbody), but didn't use them because they didn't fit my capabilities. Again, more money spent, which I don't mind if I use them, but, since I didn't, it felt like a waste because I couldn't return them.You also will need a sturdy chair for multiple exercises and a pair (or two) of good shoes, especially for the Plyometrics workout.2) Certain aspects of Tony Horton's personality. He's a good motivator and does a much better job of keeping up with exercises and sides of the body than Billy Blanks and even Shaun T. However, the jokes. After 90 days and multiple times doing certain workouts, I knew the jokes before they were coming and I had to roll my eyes. I could not do the Yoga X workout and the accompanying jokes ever again and be a very happy person. Unlike some trainers I've watched on workout videos, he does quite a bit of the workouts himself so that's a plus. It's just that certain aspects of his personality can start to wear on you after a while.The positives. What makes P90X so wonderful? Why do you still see the infomercials 8 years after the program was originally made? Why do you hear about celebrities and other public figures swearing by the program? I will tell you why:IT WORKS.It does. I play tennis and am a runner. I have played sports all of my life, from cheerleading to volleyball to softball to tennis. I've had two kids, both of whom are under 5 years old and are physically challenging to keep up with some days. I was no marshmallow, but I wasn't as in shape as I would like, especially after giving birth in the last year. Now, though, my body is so much better than it was. What are the positives?1) Muscle confusion. I didn't feel like I hit a plateau at all. I changed from month to month to month. I toned up and built muscle. I did the reps for toning rather than building bulk and it worked. I've been considering joining CrossFit because I'm so fond of weight training now.2) Flexiblity. My flexibility improved after doing the Yoga X workouts and all of the stretching involved in each of the workouts.3) Cardio. My cardio has improved a great deal after doing Insanity, but P90X started me off. I could tell a difference in my endurance while playing tennis, building upon what I had already from running. I could jump better on the court, which is a nice tool as a woman. There are not many tennis players in my area with the plyometric capabilities that I seem to have. The endurance is definitely an asset.4) The results. This is not a long-term solution. It's a great way to challenge yourself and to get yourself back on the road to fitness. It is a challenge and one that I think more people need to take. I'm still trying to get my husband to do it too, but he's resisting because of arthritis and time. THIS PROGRAM WORKS. It will get you started on a road that you will look at and wonder, "What's next?" I can't wait to see what I can do now. I love P90X. I swear by it. I might even do it again and do the Lean program (instead of the Classic) next time.Before I go, two things that you need to know before you start this program. These two are commitment and diet.If you want to lose weight on this, you HAVE to watch what you eat. I didn't and I only lost four pounds total. My body changed and so I was able to get into clothing I hadn't before, but my body weight only changed four pounds. I got back to my pre-baby weight, but I would like to have lost more. You have to commit to either following the included eating plan or one of your own. Eat less processed foods; go for more whole foods.And don't eat less than a hour before Plyo. I mean it.Ninety days is a long time. You have to stay committed to it. You have to set aside time for this. I am a stay-at-home mom (for now) and worked out during my youngest's nap times. The days I couldn't do that, I waited for my husband to come home and I worked out in the evenings. When I couldn't do that, I made up workouts on rest days. I'm so glad I did that, but it is a commitment to do this. Skipping a workout means you won't reap the benefits of this. If you buy it, then you better do it. Hopefully, all of the changes will make you keep pushing PLAY.I hope my comments are helpful.


