1351641600
5.0
review/summary: Positively Surprisedreview/text: First I'd like to point out this review is for an Invicta Men's 8926OB Pro Diver Collection Coin-Edge Automatic Watch. Considering there are several similar models I wanted to specify.The box it came in is very well made although I don't particularly like the colour, but as far as protecting and presenting the watch, it is great.The band comes wrapped and very well protected. It is somewhat of a hassle to take the wrapping off taking care not to scratch it.I confirm the crown is screw-down (not specified in the item's characteristics), so I expect the watch to be waterproof enough and at least adequate for swimming. If it drowns I'll let you know, bearing in mind it is supposed to be waterproof to 660ft.I must confess I did not fiddle too much with the crown while setting the date and time. I set the date as you would normally do with a mechanic watch, i.e. turning 24 hrs for each day (I only had to go from the 28th to the 31st). On the second position the watch stops so you can set the time very precisely. I set it according to my Mac and it has been on my wrist only for 20 minutes and is doing fine so far but too early to tell.I was forgetting that I had to remove three links from the band which, if you have some adequate tools that you can get for peanuts from Amazon16 PCS Watch Tool Kit, is very easy to do.In short, the watch looks like several thousand dollars. I always wanted a Rolex Submariner (maybe since I was 13 reading the first James Bond novels) and now, 50 years later, I feel as if I finally have one for 1/56 of the price. It is a kind of homage for the half century since the first Bond movie.-Report after wearing it for 8 days:Accuracy is outstanding considering it is a mechanical watch. It has kept the same time as my Mac almost to the second.Swam with it and dove to 6 feet, which is what my pool will allow. Perfect.One minor detail that bugs me is that the date magnifier is not perfectly aligned with the three o'clock marker, it is very slightly off -a bit towards two o'clock-. Pity, if it weren't for this I'd consider the watch perfect, considering its price.


