1354579200
5.0
review/summary: Beautiful Expensive Looking Watchreview/text: This was a present for a guy, but I ended up keeping it myself (woman) since it's right up there with the large fashionable watches that women wear these days. Plus, it's not huge at 40mm, it looks right if you have a bigger wrist, like I do. The bracelet is very large though (naturally, it's a guy's watch!) - around 8.5" so you may need to adjust it or take a few links out. I think the gold is beautiful, it matches exactly my 18k jewelry, and I can wear it with both gold and silver. Adjusting it is a breeze, just make sure you unscrew the center knob. Even though I never use all its functions, it's just nice to have them. Make sure all 3 knobs are tightened, so no water enters the watch. I find the bezel tasteful, with the numbers being very fine, just indented and barely visible. I was afraid it would look gaudy with black numbers on the bezel (as pictured), but that's not the case, it's just golden gorgeous.The bracelet is substantial, even though I think it's hollow, and the watch is not too heavy (compared to my ceramic watch), but it's got a good solid feel. The white dial is beautiful too, with a shiny surface and a beautiful raised diamond and sunray pattern. There are no markers at the 3, 6, and 9 o'clock (as the one pictured is an older model), but I don't find them terribly necessary.I was impressed by the careful packaging, the bracelet and watch case are wrapped in protective plastic, so no scratches. The box looks impressive too, if you want it for a gift. It even comes with a polishing cloth, warranty and user manual. Really, no complaints. I checked the Rolex Daytona that many celebrities wear (I cannot afford the real thing), but it's a good lookalike, and I love that style chronograph look. This is a gold plated watch, so we'll see in time how good it holds. This is my first Invicta watch, and if the quality is the same, I plan to buy more Daytonas... err Speedways, in other color combinations.Highly recommended for a guy or a gal.


