1358640000
5.0
review/summary: Synergy In Motionreview/text: I just turned 60 and completed P90X last month. I went from 190 lbs. and 28% body fat to 162 lbs. and 11% body fat. That's a loss of 36 lbs. of body fat and a gain of 8 lbs. of muscle. I've been into fitness most of my life, at one point working as a fitness trainer, and I've never achieved those types of results before.The program, from my perspective, is extremely well thought out and logical. Progressive resistance strength training days are alternated with cardio workout days, building cardio endurance to increase your durability for strength training while building strength to enhance your cardio training. And the easy-to-follow nutrition plan provides the fuel for your body to make it all happen.I must admit that coming from a fitness background I was already familiar with what it means to "Bring It", the mantra you will hear repeated throughout the course of your P90X journey. There are no shortcuts, no easy ways to getting around the commitment and hard work you'll need if you want to see the amazing results that this program offers. If you aren't breathing hard and drenched in sweat at the end of each workout then you didn't work out hard enough. But if you did give it your all then you'll ultimately feel stronger and much more energized.P90X is about "muscle confusion", their term for why the workouts and phases follow in the way they do. I'm not sure if my bicep has ever been "confused", it only being capable of flexing and contracting. But by offering a wide variety of different routines for each muscle group, and by mixing them up on a regular basis they keep it interesting so you'll never get bored and fall into a rut, the death knell of many well intentioned fitness programs.The workouts themselves move at a brisk pace to keep your heart rate up. This offers both advantages and disadvantages. The obvious advantage, as I stated, is that you maintain a high heart rate so you're burning more calories. The disadvantage is that if you need to change the weight plates on adjustable dumbbells or change resistance bands you'll have to pause the program, so keep the remote nearby! It could also increase the length of the workout by up to twenty minutes (Shoulders & Arms in particular-thirty routines each requiring a different weight since you're moving from a shoulder exercise to a biceps exercise to a triceps exercise in quick order). Follow this up with the Ab Ripper X immediately following and your workout starts pushing beyond the hour and a half mark To solve this I would recommend one of the "selectable" dumbbell sets such asBowflex SelectTech 552 Adjustable Dumbbells (Pair)or theUniversal Power-Pak 445 Adjustable Dumbbells with Stand (Combo). I have the Universals and they work great.I'd just like to take a moment to comment on several of the more controversial workouts of P90X.Clocking in at one hour and thirty three minutes Yoga X is LONG! It's also very unfamiliar territory for a lot of folks as well. The first several times that I went through it I despised it. What's the point of it all anyway? Standing and holding various postures and poses? Balance forms? Pretzel-like stretching? Meditation? C'mon Tony! Give me a break! I want fast paced cardio! I want weights and pull ups and push ups. Then one day the light went on. There is a different type of energy at work here. It is a deeper, more subtle type of energy. I was sweating just as much holding those uncomfortable poses and my muscles were just as sore the next day as if I'd done one of the more traditional workouts. I still dread doing Yoga X, but more because of it's length than because of it's content.Kenpo X is another workout that seems to have caught the ire of many X'ers. The truth is that if you just go through the motions of the workout then it will seem rather easy and low intensity. But if you "Bring It" and through every punch and kick at full speed and power, as if you have an actual opponent in front of you then you will find that Kenpo X rivals the intensity of Plyometrics.And lastly, Ab Ripper X, the one that everybody loves and hates simultaneously. First off, it's only sixteen minutes long. But it's always done right after one of the hour long resistance workouts, so making it through sometimes can be a challenge. The first several weeks I had no problem doing it. It seemed almost too easy! Then I realized that since I had just completed an hour long workout previous to it, I was slacking off on my form, performing the exercises almost halfheartedly just to get the whole workout over with. Once I tightened up my form and started to concentrate on isolating the muscles being worked it became a whole different ballgame! All of a sudden I was only able to get about half of the requisite 25 reps on each exercise before curling up into the fetal position in pain. The moral of the story is that your form is key to ALL P90X workouts if you want to stay safe and get the maximum benefits of the program.One final thing I'd like to add is that P90X has one endorser, at least unofficially, that bears mentioning - the U.S. Military! Several of the younger guys in my fire company who have joined the military often have to wait several months, sometimes up to a year for a slot to open up in Boot Camp or Basic Training. Their recruiters have them doing P90X in the interim to get in shape. Is it just a coincidence that boot camp and P90X both take thirteen weeks to complete?


